Take time to know yourself. "Know thyself" said Aristotle. When you know who you are, you can be wise about your goals, your dreams, your standards, your convictions. Knowing who you are allows you to live your life with purpose and meaning.
A narrow focus brings big results. The number one reason people give up so fast is because they tend to look at how far they still have to go instead of how far they have come. But it's a series of small wins that can give us the most significant success.
Show up fully. Don't dwell on the past, and don't daydream about the future, but concentrate on showing up fully in the present moment.
Don't make assumptions. If you don't know the situation fully, you can't offer an informed opinion.
Be patient and persistent. Life is not so much what you accomplish as what you overcome. 
In order to get, you have to give. If you support, guide, and lead others, if you make contributions to their lives, you will reap the best rewards.
Luck comes from hard work. Luck happens when hard work and timing and talent intersect.
Be your best at all times. You never know what the future will bring, so always make the best use of the present.
Don't try to impress everyone. The unhappiest people are those who care the most about what other people think.
Don't be afraid of being afraid. Sometimes the one thing you need for growth is the one thing you are most afraid to do.
Listen to learn. Learn how to listen. You can't learn anything when you're talking.
Life's good, but it's not fair. The delusion that life's supposed to be fair is the source of much unhappiness.
No task is beneath you. Don't put yourself above anyone or anything; work hard in silence and let success make the noise.
You can't always get what you want. But, as the song says, if you try you may find you get what you need.
Don't make decisions when you are angry or ecstatic. The best decisions are made with a clear conscious mind, not in the throes of any emotion--positive or negative.
Don't worry what other people think. Personality begins where comparison leaves off. Be unique. Be memorable. Be confident. Be proud.
Use adversity as an opportunity. Every loss leads to an opportunity, and every adversity leads to new possibilities.
Do what is right, not what is easy. Strength of character leads us to do the right thing, even when there are easier options.
Dreams remain dreams until you take action. Without action, an idea is just a dream.
Treat others the way you want to be treated. Do right. Do your best. Treat others as you would want them to treat you.
When you quit, you fail. The surest way to lose at any endeavor is to quit. But fatigue, discomfort, and discouragement are merely symptoms of effort. 
Trust your instincts. What good is intuition if you let second-guessing drown it out? The worst enemy of success is self-doubt.
Learn something new every day. Have the mindset of a student. Never think you are too old to ask questions or know too much to learn something new.
Make what is valuable important. Instead of thinking about what is profitable, think about what is valuable. Invest in others and you will grow your portfolio.
Believe in yourself. The way you see yourself is the way you will treat yourself, and the way you treat yourself is what you become.
Stay true to yourself. So much unhappiness stems from making decisions that go against what you know in your core, your gut, to be right. Deep down, you don't want to do it--but you do it anyway. You listen to your head. You try to convince yourself the raise is worth it, or the risk is too great, or it's better to just stay put, to keep your head down. Staying true to yourself is a challenge, yes. But effectively suppressing your true self is even more challenging.
Do what you love--not what you're told to love. To spend time (especially a considerable amount of time) doing what you love takes work. Hard work. And the truth is, most people give up. They get a job to pay the bills and do what they love "on the side. " Eventually, they lose motivation, fall into the comfort of routine, and give up the very thing they once valued the most. And for years, then, they look back in regret, almost basking in the statement, "I wish I could have. .. ". It might take a while for you to realize it, but at some point you will. You will feel an immense sense of loss for not having stuck with the thing that once brought you true joy. Even if you never make it your career. Even if you only do it for yourself, still, do it. The fact that "doing something for yourself" is seen as a waste of time and energy is testament enough to our achievement-based society.
Create the environment that's right for you. If you are an extrovert, don't allow yourself to work a job that suppresses that part of you. If you are an introvert, don't try to contort yourself to an extroverted company culture. Your own happiness is a reflection of your day-to-day, the things you're doing, and most important, how you are doing them. Create your own environment. Put yourself in a place that will help you grow, not suppress your growth. Surround yourself with people who understand, or at least make the effort to understand you. There are always options. Do not settle for someplace that does not feed your core.
Choose your friends wisely. You are a reflection of the five people you spend the most time with--choose them wisely. If they complain a lot, you will inevitably complain a lot. If they are lazy, you will become lazy. If they are not actively improving themselves, you will not actively improve yourself--unless you leave the situation and find others who will reflect that part of you. It is very difficult to remain in a state of happiness when you are surrounded by negativity.
Develop positive habits. We as humans like to believe "happiness" is the destination wherein there is no more challenge. Everything is easy. In fact, it is quite the opposite. We love challenge. We thrive off challenge. We grow through challenge. We discover ourselves by being challenged. And it is not the thing itself, but your emotional state that decides whether or not that process of growing and being challenged is enjoyable, in the same way a workout can be enjoyable or grueling and painful (in the same way a workout to someone out of shape can be grueling and painful). The simple act of developing positive habits in itself brings a deeply "earned" happiness. We are happy because we have overcome ourselves.
Create certainty and leave room for uncertainty. If everything in your life is planned out, then it's boring. If nothing in your life is planned out, then it's risky and uneasy. Happiness is found somewhere in the middle. You want just enough certainty in your life to feel like you have ground to stand on, you're not completely in danger, but you've left the window open for spontaneity to sneak in for a sleepover every now and then. It's the spontaneous adventures that bring extreme moments of joy. But they are best enjoyed when you know you have something safe to land on as well.
Be vulnerable. Frightening, but there is an unrivaled happiness that comes through acts of vulnerability. These moments confirm we are human. That we are imperfect. We open ourselves and, as if looking in the mirror for the first time, are able to step back and see who we are a bit more clearly--for better or worse. We accept ourselves, and let others do the same. Vulnerability is the secret. We as a society go to great lengths to hide who we are, and create masks, personas, and images to portray the parts we know will receive approval--while banishing the rest to the shadows. But all our best work comes from being vulnerable. All our happiest moments and saddest realizations come from being vulnerable. All our deepest loves and greatest friendships come from being vulnerable. All our art, all our music, all our creativity comes from being vulnerable. Vulnerability is the secret to happiness--and that is why I started this article with the breath. Happiness is not out there somewhere, waiting for you. Happiness is hidden within vulnerability, and vulnerability is hidden within you.
Cut back from 1-hour meetings - No one likes meetings, especially the longer ones. Focus on meetings to be 30 minutes max, it keeps things concise and efficient.
Walk like Steve Jobs - Steve loved to have important talks while walking. This keeps conversations more flexible and easier process for brainstorming if needed to be. Not to mention we could all use more exercise in our life.
Visualize your success- There are conducted studies that have shown that people who practice and visualize their success were more likely to reach it than people who just practiced. It helps with job interviews, relationships, and hobbies.
Listen more - You've probably heard this one a lot. Always seek to understand before having an opinion. You have two ears and one mouth. There's a reason for that.
Limit your daily tasks - I've mentioned this before and what I stick to in The One Step Journal, just stick with 3 tasks you want to achieve today. Keep asking yourself 'Do I really need to do this today?'
Set goals - Don't expect to achieve anything if you don't know what your end goal is supposed to be. Set destination, then set sail.
Celebrate all the successes - no matter how small, a win is a win, especially when we take losses harder than we should. Take advantage of it.
Ask yourself why more often - One of the best questions to understand this world and we don't ask it enough. This will help find your path towards your happiness.
Play to your strengths - You'll be good in certain aspect in life and terrible in others. Find out what you're good at and make it a priority in every situation you can.
Don't burn bridges - This world is smaller than you think, especially if you're in a niche market. Not everyone needs to know you dislike them. Find humor in the faults and move on.
View challenges as opportunities - This is how we improve as a person because life has constant challenges every day. There really isn't an excuse to be the same person year after year.
Find a way to shorten your commute - it's one of the biggest time sinks in our life and it's not healthy either. Really consider this in your career, your future self will thank you.
Test what you know - In the marketing field, there's always testing to make sure the correct image or words brings the best results. This can be applied to every field. If there's an alternative, try to find out if it's better.
Be willing to try something at least once - Never get stuck with those 'what if' questions. If you want to venture into a different career or try a new hobby, do the smallest things you can experience.
Always give credit - People can be upset for using their stuff without permission, but they will be more willing to forgive if you always give credit where it is due. Always be a team player.
Every person has experienced something that you haven't - Be nice to people, you don't know if they can help you with your career later in life.
Make decisions based on data if you can - Numbers don't lie
Trust your gut - Data-based decisions are only helpful if you have data, if not, always trust your gut.
Follow the 80/20 rule - 20% of your work will bring 80% of your results. Find that 20% work and focus on that.
Use the 10-year test - The 10-year test is simply asking yourself 'Will this matter in 10 days, 10 months, or years?' If yes, then consider it a priority, if not, it's not that big of a deal.
Do what you love - life is really short, if you don't love the work you're doing or isn't leading to the work that you'll enjoy, then it's not worth doing.
Focus on making an impact - Make your work meaningful and if your work isn't, do something about it. Ask yourself 'If this was my last day, would I feel content?'
Take initiative - I've had problems with this and that's making an impact without being told what to do. This separates successful from the mediocre
Build a personal brand - It's the best way to get other people to understand who you are as a professional. Make an effort in your industry's community. There are tons of groups to be a part of that are one google search away.
Get on LinkedIn - In this day and age, it's never been easier for a recruiter or to network with the people who can help your career the most. It's really become the digital resume.
Make an effort to network - this goes hand in hand with my previous tip. Networking is a lot like finding friends, you find something you have in common and able to help each other out with questions or with someone else you know.
Stay humble - Remember where you came from and there's always someone better than you at something.
Never fear failure - My biggest failures have been always the most life-changing. People like J.K. Rowling, author of the Harry Potter series got a constant rejection from publishers, Steve Jobs lost Apple, Oprah got fired at 23. Not all of those failures stopped them from being successful.
Have Heros - On your path to success, you'll find people who believe in you. Embrace them, even if it's just your mom.
Embrace the haters - You'll have people who doubt you. Let this be a motivation to make them wrong.
Be transparent whenever possible - This is a personal philosophy of mine. People will be more empathetic and forgiving if you communicate why you've made your choices. People can get the wrong idea if you're not communicating properly.
Get a standing desk when you can - Sitting has really become the new smoking in this generation.
Work smart - If you don't want to work hard, work smart. This is how you get things down with the least amount of energy possible.
Find mentors who are living the life you want - This is great networking as well as someone to help you be accountable in where you want to be in life.
Learn something new every day - This can be a new language, a skill, a trivial fact, this will make me become an interesting and a better person.
Remember people's names - People are more likely to like you if you say their name to them. It shows that you care and can recognize their presence.
Focus more on the present - Don't regret the past and don't be anxious about the future. Appreciate what is happening right now.
Listen to your body - sleep when you're tired, stretch when you feel stiff, stop eating that 2nd hamburger when you're full.
Learn to forgive - Mistakes happen and judges never benefit you. Just move on to what the future brings.
Read more - No one regrets reading more than they should. It improves attention span, creativity, comprehension, and so much more. They're always better than the movies as well.
You are the 5 people you surround yourself with - So surround yourself with people that inspire you.
Learn to say no - There's only so much time in the day, only say yes to those that bring the most benefits.
Travel whenever you can - The greatest experiences are seeing other cultures and getting a new perspective on life.
Follow your gut - Never compromise who you are as a person, if a situation doesn't make you comfortable, it's not a situation worth being in.
Don't fear change - This is how we improve and nothing stays the same forever. Embrace it
Clean during the moment - Instead of cleaning the whole house in one go, take a few minutes every day to clean a room or even a smaller area.
Silence can be golden - You don't need to fill up with words when silence has its own voice.
When in doubt, say, "Let me think about that." - This a polite way to get more time to think about something and lets the person in question know you're taking it seriously.
Do the important task first - You don't need me to tell you this, if it didn't need to do then it wasn't important, to begin with.
Use the 'We'll see' method - When something horrible has happened in your life, say 'We'll see' because sometimes things must fall apart to fall into place.
Meditate more - Such a great way to relieve stress, anger, and concentration.
Understand that most people don't care about you - and that's okay. There's no worry to care what others think.
There are people who care about you - those are the ones who need to seek the most.
Pack your clothes by rolling them - you'll get a lot more space to hold more. Amazing when traveling.
You are in charge of your life - Figure out what makes you happy and do everything you can to keep it that way.
Compliment yourself every day - positivity can really change your outlook on life. Be proud of yourself.
Take a deep breath - realize how far you've come in life. Ya, there were a lot of things you've accomplished.
Happiness is a state of mind, not a destination - If you think "once I have _____ I'll be happy". You're going to find out that happiness can only come from within.
YOLO - You truly only live once, don't regret anything you can do today.
Underpromise and overdeliver - Reliability is a virtue. So many people do the opposite, don't be one of them.
Be fearless - Fear is what stops us from our dreams. Never let that stop you.
Be in a relationship with your best friend - It's all about compromises and loving someone for who they are.
Be curious - it'll open your mind and bring more passion to your life once you understand how things are in this world.
Think about how you can help others - It's how others will remember you first and foremost.
Time is the most valuable thing you can spend in this world - You never be able to get it back no matter what.
Someone else's success might not work for you - We're all on a different path, and sometimes we need to go backward in order to go forward.
Get an idea jar - whenever you think of something fun, but don't have the time for it, write it down and put it in a jar. When you're bored, take one out and do it.
Don't suppress emotions - This is unhealthy and only makes everything worse.
Be willing to smile more - it makes you happier, it's contagious, lowers stress, more trustworthy, and more competent - all costing you nothing.
Always keep it simple - Don't make things harder than they have to be. Simplify everything when possible.
Don't get attached to stuff - Nothing lasts forever, so don't base your happiness on materialistic things.
Choose experience over things - The impact they have over your life will last you a lifetime guaranteed.
Don't compare yourself - just compare yourself to you were yesterday
Do something for someone - It's the easiest way to make someone show that you care. There are tons of ideas on Pinterest.
Love yourself first - It's a cliche that you need to love yourself first before you can love others. The more comfortable you are with yourself, the better you can love someone else.
Words have more power than you think - Say 'There is a problem with the project' compared to 'There's an opportunity to make the project better'. Which one sounds better?
Learn to let go - you may have noticed I said that previously, but it's that important.
Everyone has a story - Everyone has experienced your problems at least once in their life. Do a quick google search about a problem you have, theres a good chance someone has asked that somewhere. Learn from it.
Share your wisdom - Just like I do because this is what truly makes the world go round and makes it better for future generations.
Figuring out what you were born to do requires trial and error. This process is not linear despite that fact that we are educated to approach life in a linear fashion. If there's one commonality between the 700 plus people I've interviewed, it's that their path wasn't linear.
The only place you can go by following someone else's map is to a destination that's already been reached. To do what's never been done, you have to be willing to take a detour, assume nothing is sacred, and use a compass instead of a map.
It's hard to expand your horizons when your perspective is limited to one town, one country, one bubble. Some countries have traffic that makes crossing the street a near-death experience. If you spend your life in suburbia, you'll never learn to tolerate the stress of bigger and bolder things.
Every choice, how you spend your time, the friends you make, and the job you take are leading you in a direction. Make sure it's what you want.
On the anniversary of 9/11, I remembered the CEO of our first company. He came into our sales office that day and asked how our sales calls were going. The lack of empathy was a huge red flag. The board eventually fired him.
It's one of the great paradoxes of life that you get what you want when you don't need it. When you expect nothing, everything comes to you. When you start to get what you want, you'll be delighted. But this kind of delight is the enemy of detachment. It causes you to cling to what you have, and forget that it can be taken away from you.
Learn to be committed but detached, flexible but focused, agile but relentless.
If you have to choose between increasing your rank or expanding your skills, choose the latter. At least this way, no matter what, you'll have the skills. An increase in rank is temporary. Expansion of skills is permanent. Rank can be taken away from you, your skills can't.
You might finish school, but your education is never done. It's never too late to learn more, acquire new skills, and become a better version of yourself.
In the pursuit of anything that matters, you will be tested. You will enter periods of darkness. As Justine Musk said to me, the darker times teach you what you need to know to get where you want to go. In the darkness, you discover your capacity for light. In your setbacks, you develop the mindset that leads to comebacks.
Often, we lose what we have to make space for what we need. You lose a client, a girlfriend, or something else. Loss creates an opening in our lives. If we don't fill that space with panic and anxiety, whatever replaces what we lost will be better. It just won't ever seem that way in the moment.
Someone will let you down and you will let someone down. The inability to go through life without unintentionally hurting someone is the fatal flaw of our humanity. If I haven't let you down yet, just wait. We probably haven't known each other long enough.
Second impressions will reveal far more than first impressions. In second impressions, you learn who a person really is and what they're really like. Our first impressions are often clouded by emotion. Who a person is on day 100 is going to tell you more than who they are on day 10. People don't reveal their character with one kind deed; they reveal it with their actions over time. And one unkind deed can undo 100.
Don't punish the people in your future for the actions of the people in your past. They had nothing do with it. Until you stop doing this, your future will continue to look like your past.
You are more than your job title, the bullet points on your resume, or relationship status. To define ourselves based on external markers and labels, is to limit ourselves and our sense of possibility.
Social capital works differently than other currency. You make deposits by helping people, but you never check the balance, or even measure it. That's the difference between a connection and a transaction.
Influence is not fans, followers, and websites with lots of traffic. Don't confuse metrics with influence. The most influential people in all of our lives are often unsung heroes like public school teachers and sports coaches.
Out of the spotlight, behind the scenes are people who manage the lives of rockstars and celebrities. Meaningful influence can't be measured with vanity metrics. My most influential mentor had 100 followers on twitter.
Any life choice you make based on status is by definition impermanent. Status always fluctuates. The hottest girl in school ages. Today's superstar might be tomorrow's afterthought.
If you pursue an unconventional path, you will be misunderstood for a long time by parents, peers, and society. Decide what is more important: validation of the people who will never live with your choices or the life you want.
In any endeavor, faith, conviction, optimism and unwavering belief are necessary. This is especially true for extreme success. These will be tested when you deviate from a tried and true path.
Without solitude, silence, and reflection you'll be drowning in the noise of other people's opinions of what you should do with your life. One way to cultivate more is to stop reading shit like this and quit Facebook.
If you want to do more than meet the expectations of society's life plan, come up with your own definition of success. This definition isn't just a series of boxes you check. It continually evolves because of the eternal gap between who we are and who we want to be.
The job, the car, the stock options, the McMansion all of them can be taken away from you. Don't let your possessions define you or determine your self-worth.
Almost nothing is the catastrophe we make it out to be. I lost my sim card after buying a new one in India. When I sat down, I remembered Naval's advice about valuing your time. I could read and write for the next two hours or go searching for a sim card that I can't even use until 3 weeks from now.
All advice is context-driven. It's based on one person's experience. Of course, the person who sells a podcasting course is going to shout from the mountaintops that everyone should start a podcast. Same goes for all the investors who say everyone needs to be on some social platform.
Treat advice like ingredients. But come up with your own recipes. YOU are the blatantly obvious variable that will throw off every formula for success.
You can live your life based on the things that will go on you resume. Or you can live it based on what people will say in your eulogy. The second is what David Brooks calls the road to character.
Don't ever forget the role that luck, privilege and class have played in your accomplishments. If you have parents who valued your education, didn't grow up in poverty, and had people who loved you unconditionally, that's privilege.
Even the most successful people are aware of the role that luck plays. David Letterman told Obama he'd been nothing but lucky.
Everybody has something you don't. And you have something they don't. One of my best friends is crushing it in his business, met his wife, and is about to have a baby. But when he came to my 41st bday at my parent's house, he told me how lucky I was to be that close to my family.
Treat the time you have with the people who matter most to you as your most precious resource because it is.
Develop a tolerance for discomfort. Learn to navigate ambiguity, and keep moving forward in the face of uncertainty. Unless you can do this, you'll always be at the mercy of other people.
If you start and build things, nobody will ever care about those things as much as you do.
If there is such a thing as the divine order of the universe, you can't force that timeline. Some people succeed later in life, and hit major milestones on a different timeline. One thing that helps with accepting this is to be less skeptical about new-age bullshit. Become a spiritual skeptic (which is how I'd describe my view on the things I can't explain). I'm open-minded about it, but still skeptical.
No one but you can be honest about what it is you really, truly want to do and be. You may think you don't have the talent or resources or connections. You may think it's beyond you. You may be embarrassed to speak it out loud, or write it down in words, or even to admit it to yourself - but when you imagine doing or being that thing, it brings tears to your eyes, it chokes you up, it breaks your heart. Go after that now while you have the energy, the time and the health of youth.
Every day make sure you are good tired not bad tired. Good tired is when you've spent the day chasing your dreams. Bad tired is when you've spent it chasing someone else's.
Your greatest survival skill will be flexibility, and adapting to rapidly changing circumstances. You have a lot of time to get it right. Don't worry if you haven't 'made it' by 25.
Life is best organized as a series of daring adventures from a secure base.
Call your mother. Talk less, listen more. Believe in yourself.
Everyone is winging it, some just do it more confidently.
Everybody is probably telling you that you can't do whatever it is you really want to do. Screw them. They are just imposing their own limitations and fears on you. Do what you want. No, really. If you fail, so what? That's my favorite thing about being older. I finally figured out that I can do what I want.
Pause, but don't stop. Perseverance matters more than raw talent that isn't acted upon.
It's okay to not know everything. I wasted a lot of time and energy on putting out an idealized image of myself. It's impossible and exhausting. Surround yourself by smart people, and when you don't understand something, admit it and ask for help.
Love your body. Society has made us overcritical. When I look back at photos of me in my 20s, I say 'Wow, I was hot,' but at the time, I saw every molecule of cellulite. What a shame I didn't take more pride my body back then.
Allow yourself to be authentic at work. When I was younger, I was always trying to constrain my personality to be more buttoned-up and 'leader-like' at work. Now, I just lead. And I have a hell of a lot more fun in the process.
This is the time of your life. Don't waste it. Don't be afraid to make mistakes. Make every moment count.
Talk to one stranger each day.
No one likes to work. Do it anyway. If anyone tempts you to do sloppy work [by saying] 'No one will know,' remember: YOU will always know, and that's enough to do it right.
With your children, only your unconditional love will matter.
Listen. You will win every argument although you may be the only one who knows it.
When complimenting her, if you say something about the outside, say something about the inside, too. Mean it.
Herd mentality won't get you any further than the rest of the herd.
I went through a career reboot back in my mid 30s. I'd often thought about the big change during my 20s, but the thing that stopped me over and over was a fear of being 3 years older and starting from scratch. Eventually I changed my mindset: You're going to get older no matter what, so you might as well spend the time doing what you know you're meant to do.
Question authority. Question yourself. Test Ideas. Follow the evidence, wherever it leads. And remember, you could be wrong.
As a leader, it's not your responsibility to inspire other people, it's your responsibility to find out what inspires other people and then create a workplace where people can release their inspiration.
Never live beyond your means, get out of your comfort zone pretty often, hang with friends that have good energy, good ideas, and good humor.
Find humor in all things.
Keep your life simple & try to live on half your salary as long as you can.
Leave margin so you get to make decisions, not have to make them.
Ensure your personal mission statement is pro-human at it's root, or adjust your compass until it is.
Always buy good peanut butter.
There's plenty of time to be a grown-up. Set yourself up by not rushing into it. Your 20s and 30s are for accumulating experience: travel, date, read, argue, do drugs, see live music, volunteer. Every time you gain experience, your ceiling for a more rewarding rest of your life goes up.
Your life will never be simpler than it is today. Don't wait to pursue your passion.
Make yourself indispensable. Be ridiculously good at your job, because there will always be a bunch of younger and possibly smarter folks waiting outside to do your job for peanuts.
Don't cling to a decision just because you spent a long time making a it. Ask yourself, "If I knew what I know now, would I have made the same decision?" If the answer is no. Get out ASAP.
Do what you say you're gonna do.
Pay yourself first, and split the extra cash 3 ways: Emergency fund (3 months of expenses) Attitude account (fun stuff in next few years) and Retirement (more sooner). E.A.R.
Know your value. Realize what you bring to the table and don't shortchange yourself.
In the long run, you will not regret being honest or ethical, even if it costs you.
It's always better to NOT be the smartest person in the room.
Spend more time doing for those who can do nothing for you.
Floss more.
Journal and write down the good things that happen in a day or week and the small milestones you accomplish. It's so easy to burn through a year without noticing what happened. If you look at a month or a year and notice all the tiny wins added up together, you'll realize they are the foundation to a meaningful life.
Trust your gut. Your internal GPS rarely steers you wrong.
Meditate daily. Or just spend time being silent and visualizing the life you want. Feel the feelings of living that life.
The shortest distance between two lines isn't the most valuable.
You don't ask, you don't get.
Every famous or successful person you know has had a suker punch thrown at them and come out stronger.
Learn to talk with someone, not to someone.
If you ain't into them - tell them and move on.
Choose five people outside your immediate family. Choose to spend inconvenient time with them, stay engaged with their lives, expend your resources for their benefit. These are your real friends.
Take up Yoga. You want to be bendy when you're my age.
Express love, every time you feel it.
Invest in stock instead of blowing the cash on sweet, sweet whisky.
If you are constantly comparing your life to the lives of others, you'll never be happy.
If you blame it on someone else, don't expect it to get better.
"If you're going to f*ck up, and you're going to, make sure it's your fault." - I was training to be a boat captain and he was explaining how to deal with the inevitable accidents. I have found owning your mistakes generally is a best practice.
Try not to take anything personally. No one thinks about you as much as you do.
If you want to remember something, write it down.
Never argue with a fool. Onlookers may not be able to tell the difference.
Act like you know what you're doing in whatever situation, and 99% of people will leave you the hell alone.
You can be the ripest, juiciest peach in the world, and there will always be someone who hates peaches. (-Dita von Teese)
Don't worry about what other people think about you. They are generally too worried about what you think about them.
Don't give up what you want most for what you want now.
It doesn't matter if you spend 1000 hours practicing if you're doing it wrong, all you learned is how to do it wrong.
Don't be afraid of being alone. sometimes, you're better off that way.
If a person is nice to you but not nice to the waiter, they're not a nice a person.
Figure out what you love to do, and then figure out how to get someone to pay you to do it.
Wait 24 hours before getting mad and reacting at anything. If it doesn't bother you in 24 hours time, it probably isn't important enough to get mad over.
There is nothing wrong with not knowing something, there is something wrong with not doing anything about it.
Never make decisions when you're angry. Never make promises when you're happy.
When dealing with conflict, always use the "when you do/say X, it makes me feel Y because Z" formula. It gets conflict out of the way, minimizes screaming and tears, and works towards a solution much more constructively than just blaming the other person.
Learn something about everything, and everything about something.
When your anger passes, the relationship is still there. Basically, when you're no longer angry, the damage done to your relationship while you acted on your anger remains and permanently hurts the relationship.
In a year from now, you'll wish you started today
Don't promise when you're happy. Don't reply when you're angry. Don't decide when you're sad.
Don't look at what people say-look at what they do.
When you have a generous impulse, follow it. If it randomly occurs to you to give money to a homeless guy, or offer to help a friend move, or pay the toll for the person behind you-just do it. I've noticed that I have thoughts like this all the time, but then I'm talking myself out of it by the next thought. If I keep this advice in mind, then I'm much more likely to go through with it. And performing small acts of kindness makes everybody happy.
We judge ourselves based on our thoughts. The world judges us based on our actions.
You'll notice you live your life so much more when you stop giving a shit about what YOU think others think about you. Surprise everyone, show them you're more than a pretty face and then laugh at them when they look shocked that you've made it.
"You deserve what you accept " One of my university professors once told me that and it has stuck with me and I will never accept failure, and it taught me never to blame my shortcomings on circumstance or anyone else.
If you think you know something, find someone who disagrees and listen to them.
You have to be your own person first.
It's better to regret something you did, than something you didn't do'
Be confident and act like you belong.
"Don't take life seriously, no one gets out alive anyway." Has served me very well over the years
You can't reason someone out of a position they didn't reason themself into.
Don't look at the calendar. Just keep celebrating every day.
Invest in quality pieces, they never go out of style.
I make myself go out every day, even if it's only to walk around the block. The key to staying young is to keep moving.
Exercise, to me, is totally unnecessary. I think it's mostly overrated.
The use of vitamins? Forget it. And I don't encourage going to a lot of doctors, either.
Fall in love, get married. Sex is to be encouraged.
Even if you feel hatred, keep it to yourself. Don't hurt other people for any reason.
Don't ever give up on love.
Nobody else controls you.
Make time to cry.
Travel while you're young and able. Don't worry about the money, just make it work. Experience is far more valuable than money will ever be.
Don't compare. You'll never be happy with your life. The grass is always greener.
If you are embarrassed to be dating someone, you should not be dating them.
Do one thing each day that is just for you.
Don't be a cheapskate.
Forgive.
Find your passion and live it.
Most time things will figure themselves out.
Choose the right parents.
Have a pet. Life gets lonely sometimes. Pets are reminders of how we're all living things.
I'm not saying you have to practice one religion or another, or not practice one religion or another... I'm just saying that you should figure out what you believe in and live it completely.
Learn to adapt.
Take time to mourn what you've lost.
Keep going and never give up.
Make yourself walk.
I drink the faucet water.
Don't just die all because you want to.
Life is fun. It's all up to the person. Be satisfied. You don't have to be 'happy' all the time, you need to be satisfied.
Love people. Find something to like about the person-it's there-because we're all just people.
Get a great education. That is something that no one can take away from you.
Think positive.
Exercise every morning... I have a machine... it's a cross between a rowing machine and a bicycle... [I do] 150, 200 [rows] every morning. I won't leave my bedroom until I've done that.
Be active. I do things my way, like skiing when I'm 100. Nobody else does that even if they have energy. And I try to eat pretty correctly and get exercise and fresh air and sunshine.
If you're positive you can get through it OK. When you think negatively, you're putting poison on your body. Just smile. They say laughter is the best medicine there is.
For years I would not take any medicines at all. I don't think they do much, and lots of times the doctor is using you as a guinea pig.
Don't die too early.
Just go ahead and do your thing no matter what.
You can involve yourself in local problems. There are all sorts of things that have to be tended to in the world.
Have lots of people in the house and lots of different kinds of people-young, old, black, white, people from all over the world. People have always energized me.
Just keep going.
I attribute my longevity to a great extent to walking, not being in the back of the car strapped down.
I've done almost everything that I know of: ballet, I've done tai chi. I've done yoga. I walked 4 miles a day. I stretched and flexed. I wrote the book.
I put my health down to whiskey and cigarettes. I only drink when I'm out, but my doctor said I wouldn't be alive without them. I'm still alive, and I can lift my elbows-it's great.
We all remember how as children, when we were having fun, we often forgot to eat or sleep. I believe that we can keep that attitude as adults, too. It's best not to tire the body with too many rules such as lunchtime and bedtime.
For breakfast I drink coffee, a glass of milk, and some orange juice with a tablespoon of olive oil in it. Olive oil is great for the arteries and keeps my skin healthy. Lunch is milk and a few cookies, or nothing when I am too busy to eat. I never get hungry because I focus on my work. Dinner is veggies, a bit of fish and rice, and, twice a week, 100 grams of lean meat.
There is no need to ever retire, but if one must, it should be a lot later than 65.
When a doctor recommends you take a test or have some surgery, ask whether the doctor would suggest that his or her spouse or children go through such a procedure. Contrary to popular belief, doctors can't cure everyone. So why cause unnecessary pain with surgery? I think music and animal therapy can help more than most doctors imagine.
To stay healthy always, take the stairs and carry your own stuff. I take two stairs at a time, to get my muscles moving.
My inspiration is Robert Browning's poem 'Abt Vogler.' My father used to read it to me. It encourages us to make big art, not small scribbles. It says to try to draw a circle so huge that there is no way we can finish it while we are alive. All we see is an arch; the rest is beyond our vision but it is there in the distance.
Pain is mysterious, and having fun is the best way to forget it.
Don't be crazy about amassing material things. Remember: you don't know when your number is up, and you can't take it with you to the next place.
Science alone can't help or cure people.
Find a role model and aim to achieve even more than they could ever do.
It's wonderful to live long. Until one is 60 years old, it is easy to work for one's family and to achieve one's goals. But in our later years, we should strive to contribute to society. Since the age of 65, I have worked as a volunteer. I still put in 18 hours seven days a week and love every minute of it.
This is some advice for the ladies. Don't marry an older man, marry a younger one.
I try not to worry. I just try to live.
I try to have enough trust and confidence in myself to deal with things as they come.
I don't eat very much, but I always eat a fruit, a vegetable, and a little meat, and always make sure that I get sardine and salmon at least once or twice a week.
For less than seven years I had a mortgage. I paid everything outright, and I've lived that way until today. That is the secret to longevity right there.
Keep busy doing what you like.
You gotta have good genes.
You gotta be... lucky for 100 years.
Try not to eat anything that's healthy. It's true. I eat whatever I want. The secret to longevity is ice cream.
Quit while you're ahead.
It's just as important to take care of your mind. I take two classes... and I've studied everything from anti-Semitism to current events.
[Humor is] a life force, a way of surviving the difficulties of living.
When you laugh at yourself, you prevent others from laughing at you.
I think [people] have to be curious. They have to be interested in life outside their little aches and pains. They have to be excited about seeing new things, meeting new people, watching a new play-just passionate about life.
I don't care what you're passionate about: maybe saving Dixie cup covers. But if you do it passionately, you're alive.
Age is not a disease.
Don't get hurt.
Be honest. I've rarely lied. And when you are honest with people, it comes back to you, and they are honest with you. It's too much work keeping up with a lie. You don't need the extra stress.
Keep an open mind, and things seem less strange.
Always listen to the other person. You'll learn something. Try to sit back, because you will learn a lot more listening to others than telling them what you know.
You have to love what you do. if you find a job you love, you will never have to work a day in your life.
Take naps every day.
You get one family, so stick with them. But it depends if these hardships are financial or emotional or other types. Stick it out. Some days are worse than others, and you have to be ok with that. The night is darkest before dawn.
I try to take the time to look at and appreciate the smaller things that make this life beautiful. When I do that, time slows.
Do something interesting every day; otherwise you disintegrate.
Learning new things makes you happy and keeps your mind active.
Sleep well, try not to worry, and enjoy good dreams.
I participate in lots of activities. I play Bingo, do meditation and crafts, and attend fitness classes, like Zumba Gold for seniors, chair yoga, and sittercise... I don't miss happy hour either! I drop in three times a week.
Be lovable. I've lived a long life because there are so many people who love me.
I take a drink of Scotch every day. And I feel great afterward.
Keep kosher.
I never drank, smoked, or fooled with the weeds, you know, that stuff. And I don't let anything upset me, especially traffic.
I don't like stress. I can't stand arguing. If anybody is fussing, I'm gone. I like to be around positive people, people who lift you up not bring you down.
Mind your own business, and don't eat junk food.
Laughter keeps you healthy. You can survive by seeing the humor in everything. Thumb your nose at sadness; turn the tables on tragedy. You can't laugh and be angry, you can't laugh and feel sad, you can't laugh and feel envious.
Look inside your soul and find your tools. We all have tools and have to live with the help of them. I have two tools: my words and my images. I used my typewriter, computer, and my cameras to fight injustice. Whenever I see a possibility of helping people who are in danger, I want to help them.
Have a good appetite, lots of friends, and keep busy.
Have a good wife, two scotches a night, and be easygoing.
Never run out of responsibility; if you don't have one, find one. Find a cause and knock yourself out for it. It will enhance your brainpower, interest in life, and keep you alive longer. I'm alert because I work. Virtue is its own reward.
It is very important to have a widespread curiosity about life.
Keep yourself alert, active, and educated. Beat to your own drum."
Don't smoke, don't drink, and don't retire.
Take one day at a time, and go along with the tide.
You have to be lucky, but I made the best of things when bad things happened. I also ate prunes every single day.
Do what you have to do. Don't analyze it, just do it.
Take it easy, enjoy life, what will be will be. Sleep well, have a Bailey's Irish Cream before bed if you have a cold-you will wake up fine the next morning.
There are plenty of ways to enter a pool. The stairs is not one of them.
Never cancel dinner plans by text message.
Don't know it till you try it.
If a street performer makes you stop walking, you owe him a buck.
Always use "we" when referring to your home team.
When entrusted with a secret, keep it.
Don't underestimate free throws in a game of HORSE.
Just because you can doesn't mean you should.
Don't dumb yourself down.
You only get one chance to notice a new haircut.
If you're staying more than one night, unpack.
Never park in front of a bar.
Expect the seat in front of you to recline. Prepare accordingly.
Keep a picture of your first fish, first car and first girl/boyfriend.
Hold your heroes to a high standard.
A suntan is earned, not bought.
Never lie to your doctor.
All guns are loaded.
Don't mention sunburns. Believe me, they know.
The best way to show thanks is to wear it. Even if it's only once.
Take a vacation of your cell phone, internet and TV once a year.
Don't fill up on bread, no matter how good.
A handshake beats an autograph.
Don't linger in the doorway. In or out.
If you choose to go in drag, don't sell yourself short.
If you want to know what makes you unique, sit in on a caricature.
Never get your haircut the day of a special event.
Be mindful of what comes between you and the Earth. Always buy good shoes, tires and sheets.
Never eat lunch at your desk if you can avoid it.
When you're with new friends, don't just talk about old friends.
Eat lunch with the new kids.
When traveling, keep your wits about you. No matter where you are.
It's never too late for an apology.
Don't pose with booze. It's unbecoming.
If you have the right of way, TAKE IT.
You don't get to choose your own nickname.
When you marry someone, remember you marry their entire family.
Never push someone off a dock.
Under no circumstances should you ask a woman if she is pregnant.
It's not enough to be proud of your ancestry. Live up to it.
Don't make a scene.
When giving a thank you speech, short and sweet is best.
Know when to ignore the camera.
Never gloat.
Invest in great luggage.
Make time for your mother on your birthday. It's a special day for her too.
When opening presents, no one likes a good guesser.
Sympathy is a crutch. Never fake a limp.
Give credit, take blame.
Suck it up every now and then.
Never be the last one in the pool.
Don't stare.
Address everyone that carries a firearm professionally.
Stand up to bullies. You only have to do it once.
If you've made your point, stop talking.
Admit it when you're wrong.
If you offer to help, don't quit until the job is done.
Look people in the eye when you thank them.
Thank the bus driver.
Never answer the phone at the dinner table.
Forgive yourself for your mistakes.
Know at least one good joke.
Don't boo. Even the ref is somebody's son.
Know how to cook one good meal.
Learn to drive manual / stick shift.
Be cool to younger kids. Reputations are built over a lifetime.
It's okay to go to the movies by yourself.
Dance with your mother and father.
Don't lose your cool. Especially at work.
Always thank the host.
If you don't understand, ask before it's too late.
Know the size of your boyfriend / girlfriend's clothes.
There is nothing wrong with a plain t-shirt.
Be a good listener. Don't just take your turn to talk.
Keep your word.
In college, always sit near the front. You'll stand out immediately and come grade time it will come in handy.
Carry your mother's bags. She carried you for nine months.
Be patient with airport security. They are just doing their job.
Don't be the talker in the movie.
The opposite sex likes people who shower.
You are what you do. Not what you say.
Learn to change a tire.
Be kind. Everyone has a hard fight ahead of them.
An hour with grandparents is time well spent. Ask for advice when you need it.
Don't litter.
If you have a sister, get to know her boyfriend. Your opinion is important.
You won't always be the strongest or fastest. But you can be the toughest.
Never call someone before 9AM or after and 9PM.
Buy the orange properties in Monopoly.
Make the little things count.
Always wear a bra to work.
There is a fine line between looking sultry and slutty. Find it.
You're never too old to need your mom.
Ladies, if you make the decision to wear heels on the first date, commit to keeping them on and keeping your trap shut about how much your feet kill.
Know the words to your national anthem.
Your dance moves might not be the best, but I promise making a fool of yourself is more fun than sitting on the bench alone.
Smile at strangers.
Make goals.
Being old is not dictated by your bedtime.
If you HAVE to fight, punch first and punch HARD.
Ignore 1-star and 5-star reviews of books, hotels and products. The 3-star reviews will answer all your questions.
When you're a host, use that experience to learn how to be a better guest, and vice-versa.
If you want to be fit, become someone who doesn't skip or reschedule workouts. Skipping workouts is always the beginning of the end.
Learn keyboard shortcuts. If you don't know what CTRL + Z does, your life is definitely harder than it has to be.
Become a stranger's secret ally, even for a few minutes. Your perception of strangers in general will change.
Get over the myth that philosophy is boring - it has a history of changing lives. It's only as boring as the person talking about it.
If you're about to put down a boring a non-fiction book, skim the rest of it before you move on. Read the bits that still appeal to you.
Ask yourself if you've become a relationship freeloader. Initiate the plans about half the time.
Notice how much you talk in your head, and experiment with listening to your surroundings instead. You can't do both at the same time.
Reach out to people you know are shy. It's hard for them to get involved in social things without somebody making a point of including them.
Learn the difference between something that makes you feel bad, and something that's wrong. A thing can feel bad and be right, and it can feel good and be wrong.
If you need to stop for any reason in a public place, move off to the side first.
Before you share an interesting "fact" on Facebook, take thirty seconds to Google it first, to see if you're spreading made-up bullshit.
Clean things up right away, unless your messes tend to improve with age.
Consciously plan your life, or others will do it for you.
Be suspicious when someone uses the words "Justice" and "Deserve" a lot. Be suspicious when you use them yourself.
Get rid of stuff you don't use. Unused and unappreciated things make us feel bad.
Expect people to get offended sometimes when you try to tell them what to do. Even if you think it's good advice :)
Once in a while, imagine what it would be like if you really did lose all your data and had only your current backups.
Spend as long as it takes - five or ten years even - to move towards a line of work that feels well-suited to you.
Rediscover board games. They're still tons of fun.
Try making small, humble presents instead of buying big ones, and see how different it feels for both you and the recipient.
To eat fewer calories, eat a lot slower than normal and see what changes.
Watch experts peform their chosen art whenever you get a chance. There's something really grounding about it.
Avoid arguing about politics, except for entertainment value. By the time it's an argument, nobody's listening.
Ledger all your income, purchases and expenses, at least for a whole month. You can't help but discover wasteful spending. It's like giving yourself a raise.
When someone disagrees with you, try to understand what needs and fears are behind their stance. Yours probably aren't much different.
When driving, pretend the other drivers are all friends and relatives. It makes the driving experience friendlier, and often hilarious.
Don't act while you're still angry. Anger makes the wrong things seem right, and remorse lasts way longer than anger.
Understand that what's dangerous and what's illegal are always going to be different, and need to be. It doesn't always make sense to criminalize something just because it can be harmful.
Don't be late. Everyone hates waiting for late people.
Read Richard Carlson's classic Don't Sweat the Small Stuff.  Or read it again if it's been a while. Fifteen years after I first read it, I can't think of a more helpful book.
Be aware of the complex, systemic nature of the world's biggest problems, and our habit of framing them as simple ones with clear villains and victims.
When you're with a loved one, pretend momentarily that they're actually gone from your life, and that you're just remembering this ordinary moment with them.
Make a point of sitting and chatting with at least one local whenever you travel. It will transform your view of the place. [It's easy to meet a local resident for coffee using couchsurfing.org]
Experiment with meditation. It gives you tools to mitigate nearly every thing human beings complain about - fear, boredom, loss, envy, pain, sadness, confusion, and doubt - yet remains unpopular in the West.
Give classical music another shot every few years.
Read a bit about some of the "isms" you normally dismiss - socialism, capitalism, conservatism, feminism, anarchism. There are probably more good ideas there than you thought.
Be wary of declaring yourself a "_____ist" though. Making an identity out of your beliefs is bound to make you less objective.
Picture yourself at your own funeral. Imagine what they are thinking.
Donate clothes that you don't feel good wearing.
Practice opening up to minor discomfort when it happens - really letting yourself feel it instead of resisting it. Everything becomes easier to handle.
Listen to Dolly Parton's "Jolene" slowed down to 33 rpm, at least once in your life.
Don't make jokes about people's names or bodies, even if you think they would laugh.
Make a point of enjoying the walk across the parking lot.
Understand the concept of "privilege," but don't use it as a slur. Use your privilege for good.
Don't limit your compassion to people who don't cause any harm (because there are none.)
Be aware of the intoxicating effect of bad moods. A bad mood usually means things are better than they look.
Once in a while, imagine that this moment is the very first moment of your life, and then build a future from there.
Go to your city's low-key ethnic restaurants instead of flashy chain establishments - not to "help out the little guy" but because they're better and cheaper.
Avoid being the least sober person in the room, unless you're the only person in the room.
Go to New York, at least once.
Consider keeping a bucket list that you take seriously. They stave off complacency.
Remember that you're essentially no different from prehistoric humans, except that you have tools and advantages they would find ridiculous.
If life ever feels like it's too loud and busy, go hang out at the library.
Never hide from truths about your financial position. If you're afraid to know your bank balance, you have a problem bigger than money problems.
If you think dancing isn't for you, try it again sometime.
When you're about to buy something, think about what feeling you're actually after. Ultimately we only want things because of how they promise to make us feel.
Floss every day. You can fool yourself but you can't fool your dentist, or your teeth.
Be extra kind to people while they are at work, especially servers, clerks, and tech support staff.
Whenever you're being contradicted, try not to get caught up in being defensive. You're either right, or you get to learn something new today.
At least consider taking religion's five central no-no's seriously: don't steal, don't lie, don't kill, don't harm people with your reproductive urges, and don't drink so much that you forget the other four.
Own at least one plant. They'll never judge you, but they'll let you know if you're being careless.
Try not to let a week go by without having lunch or coffee with a friend.
Do 30-day experiments for fun and sport - try out a new way of doing something for a while. Even if they're train wrecks you always learn something about yourself.
Appeal to your friends for their expertise. You get good advice, they feel valued.
Write people letters. Everyone loves getting letters.
Keep a journal. Your mind will adjust memories to make them consistent with your current circumstances. You'll want to look back and see what you thought was a big deal, what you believed and predicted. You can't imagine the value of consistently writing (which is thinking).
The self-educated don't need credentials or validation. They're results-focused. When I was your age, I had to buy all the shit you get free now. Use it.
Don't bother telling people what you plan to do-just do it. Lil Wayne had it right: "Real G's move in silence like lasagna."
As fast as possible, work for someone who is in a lot of ways just like you. One person who thinks you resemble a younger version of themselves can make your whole career.
You don't need a leadership title to be a leader. If you see potential in someone who doesn't see it, offer to help them. That's all it takes to be a leader.
They say don't gamble with friends because it's an easy way to lose friends. But some of my best memories are from gambling with friends. I say it's worth the gamble.
Figure out how to maximize your energy. Pay attention to how you feel when you eat clean, exercise everyday & sleep well. Enough of those days added up makes all the difference in the world.
Pay attention to how your body reacts to people & ideas. If muscles twitch or you feel energized, your body is telling you to take action. Conversely, if you hear or read something that drains your energy even slightly, reconsider. Your body is smart-don't underestimate its connection to the mind.
Your family will always encourage you to play it safe rather than take risks. The reason is they share your pain of losing much more than they share in the fruits of your success. Always seek wise counsel, then draw your own conclusions.
Life is single-player. People are mostly self-interested. Yes, even those who most love you. The biggest red-pill for a man is seeing how fast his first love moves on. You're not an exception. Just remember all that you experience, and how you experience it, is a creation inside your own mind. Improve your experience by taking care of your mind.
Find your tribe-your inner-circle. Start building & investing in those relationships. That person you met a few months ago, one day you'll say you've known them for 15 years. Relationships compound the same way money does. If you wouldn't delay investing to miss out on compound interest, don't delay surrounding yourself with the right people.
Once you find the right people, be just as excited for their success as your own. Since you've surrounded yourself with studs, there'll be lots of wins. Wonderful. You've multiplied your opportunities for joy & happiness. It's one of life's little-known cheat codes (you're not even required to share in the losses).
Words are powerful. None more powerful than "I love you." Tell your tribe you love them. Men have a harder time saying, "I love you," than women do. That's because when a man says "I love you," what he means is "I would die for you." Go first. It doesn't matter if they say it back. And don't forget to love yourself. A younger version of you worked hard so you could be where you are today.
Ask your tribe what they like about you. Their answers will surprise you. Then do more of that.
Those who would mistake kindness for weakness won't be smart enough to know when it's a test. Cut 'em loose.
Crave criticism. Consider it feedback or data to be considered. Weigh it according to how much you respect the person criticizing you or your work. Good litmus test: "Would I hire this person?" If not, ignore it.
True self-confidence is rare because it's hard to attain and there are no shortcuts 1) If and when you encounter unexpected hardship, you must endure it without alcohol or drugs 2) You'll develop an enthusiasm about yourself when you can force yourself to do things others aren't willing to do.
Our world is filled with people who are 1) unaware 2) have no desire for the truth 3) can't even bear to tell themselves the truth. In fact, truth offends them, so they will go to great lengths to protect themselves from it. It's as if a mental block exists in their head to protect themselves from uncomfortable thoughts & feelings. So unaccustomed to dealing with honesty, they'll accuse you of lying too. In 2120, it will be the same. Human nature doesn't change.
My generation, thanks to social media, is the first to see how arrogance and meanness ages people. Spoiler: Men grow to be friendless and women disgruntled.
Even though we're all self-promoters now, resist exaggerating your own importance. Everything you cherish will eventually be destroyed. All things go to zero.
Life is better when you can be "fascinated" instead of "frustrated." When you're stuck in traffic because one person is looking at their phone in the left lane, only to go around and see everyone is late for work because of one guy checking Instagram on the freeway-that's fascinating.
If a "friend" tells you they're too busy, it means you're not a priority. If they don't suggest another day & time, you're really not a priority. Cut 'em loose. You want people in your life who value you (and your time).
Don't waste time debating politics with someone who doesn't know both sides of the argument. However, don't be ruthless in declining a debate-allow for exceptions if they don't have access to Google.
Spend time in other cultures as soon as possible. Not a small enclave within your own country i.e. Chinatown or Little Havana (although that's not a bad idea), But actually leave the US and stay a while. You need to know just how many of your beliefs and thought patterns are conditioning.
Everyone wants their life to improve, but not everyone wants to improve their life. Therefore, don't help people who won't help themselves. There are too many people in this world who genuinely need help to waste your time with those unwilling to better their circumstances.
If you give someone advice and they don't take it, then ask for advice again, point them in the direction of 4.57 billion other possible helpers (Internet users, 2020). This way, you're allowing them to figure things out in their own time, at their own pace. How generous!
'Know-it-alls' never seem to know their certitude repels people. It's fascinating.
Interpersonal skills are at an all-time low thanks to 10 years of human screen-addictions. If you have enough self-awareness to know this could be you (poor eye-contact, extreme literalism, etc.), be a great listener instead of the opposite.
Listen more than you talk, and don't talk to talkers. You may think they'll want you to share in the pleasures they get from talking by allowing you to talk. But don't kid yourself. And don't think next time will be different. Say, "Hello" instead of "How are you?"
You'll live a more peaceful life expecting incompetence and being pleasantly surprised than the reverse. Unless someone works with you or for you, expect incompetence.
Happiness is your responsibility. If you're not happy now, you won't be happy when you get what you want. Since happiness & gratitude are intertwined, good news is you can always find a reason to thank someone. The more sincere the 'thank you,' the more happiness-inducing. Text messaging makes this easy: "Hey man, just want to tell you how much I appreciate our friendship."
God may have made Hollywood celebrities a thing just to demonstrate that fame & fortune don't make for a happy life.
Learn to negotiate. Make it a study. All those classes in school and not one of them taught you to negotiate-something you'll be doing the rest of your life. Take six months out of your 20s and dedicate it to studying negotiation. I once worked on a team of 50 salespeople, where the ability to negotiate could dramatically impact one's income (and career trajectory). Guess how many studied negotiation? It's a rare skillset.
Two things to study continuously: communication & human nature. The former because at present there is no more important skillset-it used to be hunting (for men) and gathering (for women). Read, write, read more, give presentations, read more. Study the latter because it will make you a calmer and more strategic observer of people.
Take time to meditate. Stare out the window. Not to see what's going on outside, but what's going on inside. Gaze at the stars. Remind yourself of the vast space of time before & after you. A little insignificance will balance your ego
Get to acceptance as fast as possible. By acceptance, I mean welcome everything that happens in your life. The best time to prepare for a crisis is before it comes. An overreaction is an indication you either didn't prepare or lack imagination [to think this couldn't happen].
On sex. Will Durant said it best, "Understand that sex is a river of fire that must be banked and cooled by a hundred restraints if it is not to consume in chaos both the individual and the group." If you can learn to delay sexual gratification when young and it's most difficult, you'll develop an edge lesser men can't understand.
On money. A man on the way to his first million sprints through soft sand while helping others build their sandcastles along the way. His second million is a stroll on the boardwalk while others build sandcastles for him. He still helps others build their castles, but his advice is more valuable than his labor.
On women. Much of what you've been taught about women isn't true. Seek femininity, sweetness and a willingness to be vulnerable. Avoid the arrogant & disrespectful.
Invest well. You can't believe what you can see & do once you get money out of the way.
Learn how to learn from those you disagree with, or even offend you. See if you can find the truth in what they believe.
Being enthusiastic is worth 25 IQ points.
Always demand a deadline. A deadline weeds out the extraneous and the ordinary. It prevents you from trying to make it perfect, so you have to make it different. Different is better.
Don't be afraid to ask a question that may sound stupid because 99% of the time everyone else is thinking of the same question and is too embarrassed to ask it.
Being able to listen well is a superpower. While listening to someone you love keep asking them "Is there more?", until there is no more.
A worthy goal for a year is to learn enough about a subject so that you can't believe how ignorant you were a year earlier.
Gratitude will unlock all other virtues and is something you can get better at.
Treating a person to a meal never fails, and is so easy to do. It's powerful with old friends and a great way to make new friends.
Don't trust all-purpose glue.
Reading to your children regularly will bond you together and kickstart their imaginations.
Never use a credit card for credit. The only kind of credit, or debt, that is acceptable is debt to acquire something whose exchange value is extremely likely to increase, like in a home. The exchange value of most things diminishes or vanishes the moment you purchase them. Don't be in debt to losers.
Pros are just amateurs who know how to gracefully recover from their mistakes.
Extraordinary claims should require extraordinary evidence to be believed.
Don't be the smartest person in the room. Hangout with, and learn from, people smarter than yourself. Even better, find smart people who will disagree with you.
Rule of 3 in conversation. To get to the real reason, ask a person to go deeper than what they just said. Then again, and once more. The third time's answer is close to the truth.
Don't be the best. Be the only.
Everyone is shy. Other people are waiting for you to introduce yourself to them, they are waiting for you to send them an email, they are waiting for you to ask them on a date. Go ahead.
Don't take it personally when someone turns you down. Assume they are like you: busy, occupied, distracted. Try again later. It's amazing how often a second try works.
The purpose of a habit is to remove that action from self-negotiation. You no longer expend energy deciding whether to do it. You just do it. Good habits can range from telling the truth, to flossing.
Promptness is a sign of respect.
When you are young spend at least 6 months to one year living as poor as you can, owning as little as you possibly can, eating beans and rice in a tiny room or tent, to experience what your "worst" lifestyle might be. That way any time you have to risk something in the future you won't be afraid of the worst case scenario.
Trust me: There is no "them".
The more you are interested in others, the more interesting they find you. To be interesting, be interested.
Optimize your generosity. No one on their deathbed has ever regretted giving too much away.
To make something good, just do it. To make something great, just re-do it, re-do it, re-do it. The secret to making fine things is in remaking them.
The Golden Rule will never fail you. It is the foundation of all other virtues.
If you are looking for something in your house, and you finally find it, when you're done with it, don't put it back where you found it. Put it back where you first looked for it.
Saving money and investing money are both good habits. Small amounts of money invested regularly for many decades without deliberation is one path to wealth.
To make mistakes is human. To own your mistakes is divine. Nothing elevates a person higher than quickly admitting and taking personal responsibility for the mistakes you make and then fixing them fairly. If you mess up, fess up. It's astounding how powerful this ownership is.
Never get involved in a land war in Asia.
You can obsess about serving your customers/audience/clients, or you can obsess about beating the competition. Both work, but of the two, obsessing about your customers will take you further.
Show up. Keep showing up. Somebody successful said: 99% of success is just showing up.
Separate the processes of creation from improving. You can't write and edit, or sculpt and polish, or make and analyze at the same time. If you do, the editor stops the creator. While you invent, don't select. While you sketch, don't inspect. While you write the first draft, don't reflect. At the start, the creator mind must be unleashed from judgement.
If you are not falling down occasionally, you are just coasting.
Perhaps the most counter-intuitive truth of the universe is that the more you give to others, the more you'll get. Understanding this is the beginning of wisdom.
Friends are better than money. Almost anything money can do, friends can do better. In so many ways a friend with a boat is better than owning a boat.
This is true: It's hard to cheat an honest man.
When an object is lost, 95% of the time it is hiding within arm's reach of where it was last seen. Search in all possible locations in that radius and you'll find it.
You are what you do. Not what you say, not what you believe, not how you vote, but what you spend your time on.
If you lose or forget to bring a cable, adapter or charger, check with your hotel. Most hotels now have a drawer full of cables, adapters and chargers others have left behind, and probably have the one you are missing. You can often claim it after borrowing it.
Hatred is a curse that does not affect the hated. It only poisons the hater. Release a grudge as if it was a poison.
There is no limit on better. Talent is distributed unfairly, but there is no limit on how much we can improve what we start with.
Be prepared: When you are 90% done any large project (a house, a film, an event, an app) the rest of the myriad details will take a second 90% to complete.
When you die you take absolutely nothing with you except your reputation.
Before you are old, attend as many funerals as you can bear, and listen. Nobody talks about the departed's achievements. The only thing people will remember is what kind of person you were while you were achieving.
For every dollar you spend purchasing something substantial, expect to pay a dollar in repairs, maintenance, or disposal by the end of its life.
Anything real begins with the fiction of what could be. Imagination is therefore the most potent force in the universe, and a skill you can get better at. It's the one skill in life that benefits from ignoring what everyone else knows.
When crisis and disaster strike, don't waste them. No problems, no progress.
On vacation go to the most remote place on your itinerary first, bypassing the cities. You'll maximize the shock of otherness in the remote, and then later you'll welcome the familiar comforts of a city on the way back.
When you get an invitation to do something in the future, ask yourself: would you accept this if it was scheduled for tomorrow? Not too many promises will pass that immediacy filter.
Don't say anything about someone in email you would not be comfortable saying to them directly, because eventually they will read it.
If you desperately need a job, you are just another problem for a boss; if you can solve many of the problems the boss has right now, you are hired. To be hired, think like your boss.
Art is in what you leave out.
Acquiring things will rarely bring you deep satisfaction. But acquiring experiences will.
Rule of 7 in research. You can find out anything if you are willing to go seven levels. If the first source you ask doesn't know, ask them who you should ask next, and so on down the line. If you are willing to go to the 7th source, you'll almost always get your answer.
How to apologize: Quickly, specifically, sincerely.
Don't ever respond to a solicitation or a proposal on the phone. The urgency is a disguise.
When someone is nasty, rude, hateful, or mean with you, pretend they have a disease. That makes it easier to have empathy toward them which can soften the conflict.
Eliminating clutter makes room for your true treasures.
You really don't want to be famous. Read the biography of any famous person.
Experience is overrated. When hiring, hire for aptitude, train for skills. Most really amazing or great things are done by people doing them for the first time.
A vacation + a disaster = an adventure.
Buying tools: Start by buying the absolute cheapest tools you can find. Upgrade the ones you use a lot. If you wind up using some tool for a job, buy the very best you can afford.
Learn how to take a 20-minute power nap without embarrassment.
Following your bliss is a recipe for paralysis if you don't know what you are passionate about. A better motto for most youth is "master something, anything". Through mastery of one thing, you can drift towards extensions of that mastery that bring you more joy, and eventually discover where your bliss is.
I'm positive that in 100 years much of what I take to be true today will be proved to be wrong, maybe even embarrassingly wrong, and I try really hard to identify what it is that I am wrong about today.
Over the long term, the future is decided by optimists. To be an optimist you don't have to ignore all the many problems we create; you just have to imagine improving our capacity to solve problems.
The universe is conspiring behind your back to make you a success. This will be much easier to do if you embrace this pronoia.
 Don't fall for the trap that your life needs to be one long narrative that you should be building. Life is best when it's a bunch of happy moments that just happen to be connected.Don't try to make your life into a novel, make it a book of poems. 
Find yourself a good person to be in a relationship with. Looks will fade but that personality will be there forever. As you age your friends will pair off and you will find yourself hanging out with them less and less. They will have kids or move away and you will find yourself either alone or with your partner during 99% of your free time. Humans do not do well being isolated and alone. Finding a healthy relationship is so important and no one really talks about it or just tells you to focus on your career. Having someone in your corner that always has your back will make life that much easier.Find someone with the same goals in life that you do and hold onto them....hard. Marry a brain, not a booty. 
Don't have children unless you really really want children. Don't have more children than you really want.Be true to yourself. It's OK to live a life that no one else understands. 
It's never too late to start again.All in my 20's I thought I couldn't just restart my career or dump a useless boyfriend or go back to school because I was already on a certain trajectory. Made my choices now I gotta make the best of it. That's total bullcrap. You have no idea how incredibly young you are and how much time you have to do whatever you want to do.When I figured this out, I found the man of my dreams, had a kid in my late late 30's, dropped my entire career in my late 40's and starting a new one at 50 and it's awesome.Edit:. Oh my! I had no idea my post would be so inspirational or that so many people needed to read it. Thank you everyone for the kind words and updoots and awards. I'm so excited for everyone taking a leap into the great unknown. You got this!And if you are sad or upset or frustrated with life that's ok too. You have time and it will pass. You have no idea what comes next and you have so much time to explore! I am still figuring things out.... 
When I was in college, I had the chance to go to Europe but I passed because I had to work at a warehouse. I picked staying at a part time warehouse job over seeing the world. When I finally went abroad in my 30s, it changed my perspective about everything and everyone. Go to another country that is far away and different than your own. 
I'm sure this will never get seen, but I haven't seen any comments about what I consider to be the most important things...Never stop learning, and don't be afraid to say "I dont know" to something you don't know. It's amazing what you can accomplish when you are inquisitive about the world around you. 
I hesitate to give advice, being unqualified to do so.Instead, here are some points that may or may not be worthy of consideration.Time is very short, and as you get older it speeds up more and more.Time is more important than money. In theory, you could end up a billionaire. But nobody is ever a "time billionaire." Rich or poor, you're gonna get maybe 100 years at the absolute max, and probably not that much.There will be several versions of You as you walk your path, but one version that kind of colors all the other versions. This version you could call "the real you." It pays to spend time figuring out who that real you is.You will have to deal with people. Learn how to leave them happy to have been in your presence, and you will not lack for friends and loved ones.Speaking of loved ones: just because someone is a blood relative, it doesn't mean they're worth a crap. If your parent, sibling, or child is a complete asshole unworthy of your attention, don't waste further time on them.Find something you love to do, and do that. Do it every day. It doesn't matter if you make money at it, or get recognition because of it. Do it like Henry Darger did his writing and drawing, and like Vivian Maier did her photography. Do good work. It is its own reward.I am a geezer, 64 years old. It does not have to suck being old. (I think it's freaking great, for many reasons.)If you're ever in my town, drop by and get ON my lawn. 
Don't pluck your eyebrows too thin. 
I'm 46, and here's what I know:1. Money is important but it's not the end all be all. It will not listen to your problems or hug you when you need it2. Watch your weight, your blood pressure, and do not smoke. 75% of my patients that have the most serious diagnoses have at least one of these factors.3. Comparison will rob you of joy. Be happy for others, but don't feel you need to be like them.4. Let go of the little things. Stress will kill you5. Chase your dreams! Life goes by SO fast. You don't want to be 80 yrs old and regretting not traveling, pursuing your passion, etc6. You cannot change someone. Whether a friend or a partner, their faults will not "get better" and you cannot rescue them. Don't waste your life on toxic people.7. Make a point of performing kind acts for others. It will greatly enrich your life.Now... go get your life!!! 
I was a raging alcoholic in my twenties and thought I would never recover from it. I never found a real job using my first degree or my masters. Part of it was because I was always drunk, part of it was the job market at the time.I went back to school in my thirties and found something I like a whole lot more. Now, I'm married, nearly ten years sober, and have a great job.My point is, if you end up on the wrong path or don't like where you are, there's always time to turn around and change it. Too many people just assume they're stuck where they are and stuck with the issues they have. 
If you aren't SURE you want kids, make sure you ARE sure before you have them.I dodged a couple of bullets over the years, and don't have any kids. I see and hear all the crap other people have to go through, and I don't think I could handle that level of stress in my life. I'm very glad to be childless.Of course some people love kids, and should have lots of them. That's just not me, and it might not be you too. 
Relax and don't get overly angryWhile others talk about material things or experiences the real lesson is to accept that things won't always go the way you want them to and that's ok.Didn't marry your perfect spouse? That person doesn't exist - align expectations to reality and appreciate those who love you for who they are. Or find new peopleDidn't buy the perfect car? Oh, well, it still gets you where youre going. Define your criteria for the next one and work towards itDidn't get the perfect house? Probably not. But it's yours and you can fix itDidn't get that promotion? Don't be so sure it would have worked out the way you think it would have.Vacation wasn't perfect? Are you sure about that, or were your expectations too high?Point is, relax, enjoy the ride, work to your goals but remember none of it matters if you can't enjoy it along the way. 
Maintain your friendships. In twenty years you will be so grateful for those people who saw you through marriages, children, illness and health. People who will go for a trip with you, love your kids, remember you as a young person.Friends are essential but they require work. Don't be alone just because you don't want to be the person who reaches out to others. 
Take care of your teeth. This is the only set you're ever going to have and you don't want to neglect them and mess them up like I did. I've got crap tons of fillings which don't last forever and need replacement. A filling isn't as good as the real thing and filled teeth can break, requiring crowns. I have two and it sucks.Brush and floss thoroughly every single day without exception. Hell, get an electric toothbrush. See the dentist regularly. Ditch the sugary drinks. 
When I was 22, an older gentleman asked me how old I was and then told me, "chad303, when you are twice that age, you'll be twice the man you are today." I almost considered it a slight in that moment, but time has proven him wise. Here I am, twice that age and, in my humble estimation, twice the man than I was then. I believe this chiefly because I have learned that kindness is not a weakness, humility serves you better than pride, and cruelty is a fool's game. 
It's not a race! Stop comparing yourself to others. Just because they did things sooner than you, doesn't mean they're happier or better.Try to start good habits. It is a little rough at first, but in a few years it will be second nature. Do this with things like cooking, cleaning, saving money and self-care.It is okay to not like someone. It is also okay to have someone not like you (people are going to not like you for no reason. That is okay. It's a "them" issue and not a "you" issue). Don't be an ass to everyone and give them reason to dislike you, but also know that you are under no obligation to put up with someone else's bad friendship.There is no shame in seeing a mental health professional. 
Honestly?If you want more career satisfaction be as positive as possible at work. I mean it. I am cynical by nature and thought everyone around me loved my sarcastic one-off comments. Every meeting I would demonstrate biting wit at the ridiculous corporate bullshit being peddled. If there was failure I was there to point at it and laugh; and if success I was always there ready to "keep it real" for folks. Apparently my attitude and sense of humor were not as appreciated as I thought.Then, disaster struck at work (a few years ago) and my skills were needed more than ever.Now mind you, I had been passed over a couple of times for promotions. I was salty about that because (and I am being honest here) I was a really really good candidate and am regarded quite well in my industry. I was stunned at missing out; and my dissatisfaction was not kept out of sight.Well back to the disaster. For some reason I took this opportunity to shut up and be a positive team member. This particular problem (not virus related) would have allowed me to sit at home, get paid, and do nothing while everything got sorted. A paid two week vacation without dipping into PTO-nice. Let the suits sort it out while I laugh at their awkward attempts to right the ship; snickering with co-workers via personal emails. I was really looking forward to pointing out inconsistencies and ambiguous language in their directives. I was practically giddy with excitement with the prospect of watching them fall on their faces.Instead I put on my big boy pants, went to work, walked in the boss's office and politely asked if there was anything she needed. For two weeks I worked my ass off. Did everything I was asked, kept my pie hole shut (god were there opportunities for serious humor). I took a lot of initiative, and throughout I was positive and pleasant. At meetings I would offer constructive comments, take notes, and follow up on items-even if I wasn't asked. I had become the dreaded "try-hard." Then the calls came: from every where in the organization. How do we do "x." Can I do "y." Mind you, in the past I would have provided a slightly sarcastic reminder of my "scope" of duties-which didn't include doing their job too. Instead I was positive and cheerful. I was happy to help them get through the crisis.After the disaster subsided, I did not revert back to Mr. Point-Out-How-Stupid-Everything-Is, and kept a positive and cheerful demeanor. I kept my comments to myself, and went home and shared my list of comments I could have made with family.I noticed the more positive I became, the more people seemed to want to work with me; and the more responsibilities my boss heaped upon me. So I kept at it. And not one, but two promotions came (with significant raises)-and now I am in a position that I really really enjoy.Had I only figured this out in my 20s I might have gotten where I am more quickly. One caveat, if your work is a suck-fest, don't be afraid to move on; with a positive farewell email and pointing out how much everyone meant to you... 
You don't have to have kids and buy a minivan and live that life. It's totally fine if you don't. You might even be happier and a lot wealthier in the end. You're not weird or broken because you want to live a less "normal" life. A lot of us do it you just don't see us marketed to on TV. 
Go have an adventure of a life time. Don't put it off. Make plans for your money. STAY OUT OF DEBT. You dont need that new car, watch, handbag etc. Material items are not worth your sanity. Have a 3-6 month emergency fund. Don't waste time on anyone who disrespects you. Have a back bone but don't be rude. Not everything needs your reaction. Find someone who you can spend endless time with. Talk about ideas not people. Above all fu*k what anyone thinks.Ill be 41 this year. 
Wear sunscreen.If I could offer you only one tip for the future, sunscreen would be it. The long-term benefits of sunscreen have been proved by scientists, whereas the rest of my advice has no basis more reliable than my own meandering experience. I will dispense this advice now.Enjoy the power and beauty of your youth. Oh, never mind. You will not understand the power and beauty of your youth until they've faded. But trust me, in 20 years, you'll look back at photos of yourself and recall in a way you can't grasp now how much possibility lay before you and how fabulous you really looked. You are not as fat as you imagine.Don't worry about the future. Or worry, but know that worrying is as effective as trying to solve an algebra equation by chewing bubble gum. The real troubles in your life are apt to be things that never crossed your worried mind, the kind that blindside you at 4 p.m. on some idle Tuesday.Do one thing every day that scares you.Sing.Don't be reckless with other people's hearts. Don't put up with people who are reckless with yours.Floss.Don't waste your time on jealousy. Sometimes you're ahead, sometimes you're behind. The race is long and, in the end, it's only with yourself.Remember compliments you receive. Forget the insults. If you succeed in doing this, tell me how.Keep your old love letters. Throw away your old bank statements.Stretch.Don't feel guilty if you don't know what you want to do with your life. The most interesting people I know didn't know at 22 what they wanted to do with their lives. Some of the most interesting 40-year-olds I know still don't.Get plenty of calcium. Be kind to your knees. You'll miss them when they're gone.Maybe you'll marry, maybe you won't. Maybe you'll have children, maybe you won't. Maybe you'll divorce at 40, maybe you'll dance the funky chicken on your 75th wedding anniversary. Whatever you do, don't congratulate yourself too much, or berate yourself either. Your choices are half chance. So are everybody else's.Enjoy your body. Use it every way you can. Don't be afraid of it or of what other people think of it. It's the greatest instrument you'll ever own.Dance, even if you have nowhere to do it but your living room.Read the directions, even if you don't follow them.Do not read beauty magazines. They will only make you feel ugly.Get to know your parents. You never know when they'll be gone for good. Be nice to your siblings. They're your best link to your past and the people most likely to stick with you in the future.Understand that friends come and go, but with a precious few you should hold on. Work hard to bridge the gaps in geography and lifestyle, because the older you get, the more you need the people who knew you when you were young.Live in New York City once, but leave before it makes you hard. Live in Northern California once, but leave before it makes you soft. Travel.Accept certain inalienable truths: Prices will rise. Politicians will philander. You, too, will get old. And when you do, you'll fantasize that when you were young, prices were reasonable, politicians were noble and children respected their elders.Respect your elders.Don't expect anyone else to support you. Maybe you have a trust fund. Maybe you'll have a wealthy spouse. But you never know when either one might run out.Don't mess too much with your hair or by the time you're 40 it will look 85.Be careful whose advice you buy, but be patient with those who supply it. Advice is a form of nostalgia. Dispensing it is a way of fishing the past from the disposal, wiping it off, painting over the ugly parts and recycling it for more than it's worth.But trust me on the sunscreen. 
Everything you "get" becomes something you "have"Learn how to be happy "having" things instead of "getting" them. 
Get a regular exercise routine going and stick to it like your quality of life depends on it, because it does. 
Accept that it doesn't always work out in the end. There is no magic balance that says if something awful happens something good must happen later. Not always winning or being happy is part of life. The sooner you find the tools to accept that the sooner you can achieve your goals.All of the tangible actions mentioned here are reflections of understanding your values. Figuring out what your values are hasten the maturation process. The reason people say go on adventures is because it forces you to understand yourself.And honestly, get off Facebook and Instagram. 
Get out of that creepy cult while you are young. Live your life free of your parent's cult. (I was raised in the Mormon cult) 
If you are lucky enough to have the love of a good woman. Support her and she will support you. Two heads are better than one. I don't what I'd do without my S.O. never take one day for granted. Get out there into the world and enjoy it. I'm 45 this year and plenty of my peers didn't make it and wasted their shot. 
My simple advice is to own as little as possible. Having minimal possessions has made me happier and more focused. This isn't about sacrifice or going without. It's about finding pleasure in what I already own. If a friend buys a new jacket, I'm happy for him but it wouldn't motivate me to buy one. There's a certain zen calmness when you get off the consumption treadmill. 
Go to therapy. Figure out what your insecurities are, why you have them, and how to deal with so that they don't define the rest of your life. Talk about your issues from childhood and you're teens (yea, everyone has issues even in their 20's). If you don't do it now you will make decisions based on or driven by those issues and that will put you on a path you may not like. 
This whole thread is wholesome af. I'm 32 but I wish I would've spent more of my 20s listening to advice of slightly older people rather than trying to prove that I could figure it out on my own. Imagine how much energy I could've saved. 
Don't put yourself in ridiculous amounts of debt trying to portray a certain image. You'll spend your entire life trying to get out of the hole you dug or you'll have to declare bankruptcy.Set aside enough money to cover 3-6 months of expenses for emergencies just like now. Moreover, save now for your retirement years. It doesn't require much and if you have it taken directly from your paycheck you won't be inclined to not pay yourself first.Take care of your body. Exercise to maintain a healthy weight and good cardiovascular health. As you get older, it's much harder to maintain these.Enjoy the days of your youth without going overboard. There is nothing wrong with having a good time, yet if you are always waking up wondering what happened last night, why you can't remember how you spent so much money or you always have a hangover; you should tone it down a bit.Don't take advice or criticism as a personal attack. Most times the people who care about you have observed behavior in you which is off putting, doesn't reflect who you really are or could be or would make you a more rounded person. 
Yes, HAVING KIDS ISN'T THE DEFAULT OPTION. It's a huge decision so many people don't realise they have to make.I'm sure you'll get replies about "true happiness" and "purpose" and stuff, and for those people who are wired to want kids, great, good for you. We aren't all like you, some of us don't want to go down that road and can live just as fulfilling a life our own way. 
