help is available. speak with someone today. national suicide prevention hotline 800-273-8255
a book, too, can be a star, a living fire to lighten the darkness, leading out into the expanding universe.
a bore is someone who deprives you of solitude without providing you with company.
a brain has to digest its food, too.
a brave man acknowledges the strength of others.
a children's story that can only be enjoyed by children is not a good children's story in the slightest.
a classic is a book that has never finished saying what it has to say.
a classic is a book which people praise and don't read.
a clever person solves a problem. a wise person avoids it.
a creative man is motivated by the desire to achieve, not by the desire to beat others.
a cynic is a man who knows the price of everything, and the value of nothing.
a cynic is better than an evil hiding under halo.
a cynic knows the price of everything, and the value of nothing.
a day without laughter is a day wasted.
a day without sunshine is like, you know, night.
a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.
a few hours of mountain climbing turn a villain and a saint into two rather equal creature. exhaustion is the shortest way to equality and fraternity, and liberty is added eventually by sleep.
a foolish man takes offense when it isn't meant. a wise man learns not to take offense when it is.
a friend is one before whom you may think aloud.
a friend is someone, who upon seeing another friend in immense pain, would rather be the one experiencing the pain than to have to watch their friend suffer.
a friend is the hope of the heart.
a friend is, as it were, a second self.
a friend to all is a friend to none.
a gentleman is one who never hurts anyone's feelings unintentionally.
a gentleman is someone who does not what he wants to do, but what he should do.
a girl should be two things, classy and fabulous.
a glorious sunset has never left me empty.
a goal is not always meant to be reached, it often serves simply as something to aim at.
a goal without a plan is just a wish.
a gold mine is a hole in the ground with a liar standing on top of it.
a good friend will always stab you in the front.
a good library will never be too neat, or too dusty, because somebody will always be in it, taking books off the shelves and staying up late reading them.
a good speech should be like a woman's skirt, long enough to cover the subject and short enough to create interest.
a good teacher can inspire hope, ignite the imagination, and instill a love of learning.
a great book should leave you with many experiences, and slightly exhausted at the end. you live several lives while reading.
a great fire burns within me, but no one stops to warm themselves at it, and passers by only see a wisp of smoke.
a great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.
a guy and a girl can be just friends, but at one point or another, they will fall for each other. maybe temporarily, maybe at the wrong time, maybe too late, or maybe forever.
a hero need not speak, when he is gone, the world will speak for him.
a human being is a part of the whole called by us universe, a part limited in time and space. he experiences himself, his thoughts and feeling as something separated from the rest, a kind of optical delusion of his consciousness. this delusion is a kind of prison for us, restricting us to our personal desires and to affection for a few persons nearest to us. our task must be to free ourselves from this prison by widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of nature in its beauty.
a joyful spirit is evidence of a grateful heart.
a jury consists of twelve people who determine which client has the better lawyer.
a kiss can be deadly if you mean it.
a lady's imagination is very rapid, it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony in a moment.
a leader is a dealer in hope.
a leader is best when people barely know he exists, when his work is done, his aim fulfilled, they will say, we did it ourselves.
a learning experience is one of those things that says, you know that thing you just did. don't do that.
a legendary hero is usually the founder of something the founder of a new age, the founder of a new religion, the founder of a new city, the founder of a new way of life..
a lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes.
a lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on.
a life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.
a life without adventure is likely to be unsatisfying, but a life in which adventure is allowed to take whatever form it will is sure to be short.
a little nonsense now and then never hurt the wisest man.
a loving heart is the truest wisdom.
a man can't change the war, but the war can change a man.
a man convinced against his will is of the same minds still.
a man is already halfway in love with any woman who listens to him.
a man is but the product of his thoughts. what he thinks, he becomes.
a man of courage never wants weapons.
a man paints with his brains and not with his hands.
a man sits with a pretty girl for an hour and it seems shorter than a minute. but tell that same man to sit on a hot stove for a minute, it is longer than any hour. that's relativity.
a man who goes to a bar and a man who goes to a temple are seeking the same things, more happiness and less suffering.
a man who never made a mistake never made anything.
a man who procrastinates in his choosing will inevitably have his choice made for him by circumstance.
a man will be imprisoned in a room with a door that's unlocked and opens inwards, as long as it does not occur to him to pull rather than push.
a man, should keep his friendship in constant repair.
a man's face is his autobiography. a woman's face is her work of fiction.
a memorandum isn't written to inform the receiver, but to protect the writer.
a mind needs books as a sword needs a whetstone, if it is to keep its edge.
a mind that is stretched by a new experience can never go back to its old dimensions.
a moment's insight is sometimes worth a life's experience.
a no uttered from the deepest conviction is better than a yes merely uttered to please, or worse, to avoid trouble.
a painter should begin every canvas with a wash of black, because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light.
a persisting problem in our society today is that we draw too many lines and not enough circles.
a person of good intelligence and sensitivity cannot exist in this society very long without having some anger about the inequality.
a person who never made a mistake never tried anything new.
a person's a person, no matter how small.
a pessimist is one who, when he has the choice of two evils, chooses both.
a pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity, an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.
a poem begins as a lump in the throat, a sense of wrong, a homesickness, a lovesickness.
a positive quote to live the rest of your life positively.
a positive thought a day keeps negativity away.
a professional is someone who can do his best work when he doesn't feel like it.
a prudent question is one half of wisdom.
a psychiatrist once said that i gambled in order to escape the reality of life. i told him thats why everybody does everything.
a quick temper will make a fool of you soon enough.
a real decision is measured by the fact that you've taken a new action. if there's no action, you haven't truly decided.
a sense of humor is part of the art of leadership, of getting along with people, of getting things done.
a ship is safe in harbor, but that's not what ships are for.
a society grows great when old men plant trees whose shade they know they shall never sit in.
a sound mind in a sound body is a short but full description of a happy state in this world.
a stupid man's report of what a clever man says can never be accurate, because he unconsciously translates what he hears into something he can understand.
a successful man is one who can lay a firm foundation with the bricks others have thrown at him.
a teacher is never a giver of truth he is a guide, a pointer to the truth that each student must find for himself. a good teacher is merely a catalyst.
a thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it.
a true friend knows your weaknesses but shows you your strengths. feels your fears but fortifies your faith. sees your anxieties but frees your spirit. recognizes your disabilities but emphasizes your possibilities.
a true friend stabs you in the front.
a verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
a warrior lives as if life is a lie, dies as if death is truth.
a well spent day brings happy sleep.
a winner is just a loser who tried one more time.
a wise girl kisses but doesn't love, listens but doesn't believe, and leaves before she is left.
a wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a fool can learn from a wise answer.
a wise man can learn more from his enemies than a fool from his friends.
a wise man gets more use from his enemies than a fool from his friends.
a wise man knows an ignorant man because he was once ignorant. but an ignorant man doesn't know a wise man because he was never wise.
a wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.
a woman has to live her life, or live to repent not having lived it.
a woman is like a tea bag, you never know how strong it is until it's in hot water.
a word is dead when it is said, some say. i say it just begins to live that day.
a word to the wise ain't necessary it's the stupid ones that need the advice.
a word to the wise is infuriating.
a writer is someone for whom writing is more difficult than it is for other people.
about being oneself if all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over.
about change every really new idea looks crazy at first.
about exaggerated realism imagination is the one weapon in the war against reality.
about half of what separates the successful entrepreneurs from the non successful ones is pure perseverance.
about happiness there is only one success, to be able to spend your life in your own way, and not to give others absurd maddening claims upon it.
about humbleness my opinions may have changed, but not the fact that i'm right.
about hypocrisy we know what a person thinks not when he tells us what he thinks, but by his actions.
about learning from history those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.
about standing up for one's opinion one who sits between two chairs may easily fall down.
about tact the most difficult thing in the world is to know how to do a thing and to watch somebody else doing it wrong, without comment.
about the necessity of compromise lots of times you have to pretend to join a parade in which you're not really interested in order to get where you're going.
about tolerance deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own.
above all, be the heroine of your life, not the victim.
above all, don't lie to yourself. the man who lies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to a point that he cannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so loses all respect for himself and for others. and having no respect he ceases to love.
absorb what is useful. discard what is not. add what is uniquely your own.
accept everything about yourself i mean everything, you are you and that is the beginning and the end no apologies, no regrets.
accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory.
accept who you are. unless you're a serial killer.
act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.
action expresses priorities.
action is the foundational key to all success.
adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own.
adults are always asking little kids what they want to be when they grow up cause they're looking for ideas.
adults are obsolete children.
affection is responsible for nine tenths of whatever solid and durable happiness there is in our lives.
after i learned about confirmation bias, i started seeing it everywhere.
after silence, that which comes nearest to expressing the inexpressible is music.
age does not always bring wisdom. sometimes age comes alone.
ah. don't say you agree with me. when people agree with me i always feel that i must be wrong.
ain't it just like the night to play tricks when you're trying to so quiet.
airports see more sincere kisses than wedding halls. the walls of hospitals have heard more prayers than the walls of churches.
alcohol is an excellent servant and a terrible master.
all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.
all children are artists. the problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up.
all endings are also beginnings. we just don't know it at the time.
all fungi are edible. some fungi are only edible once.
all great achievements require time.
all great men were simple.
all grown ups were once children. but only few of them remember it.
all happy families are alike, each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
all i ever wanted was to reach out and touch another human being not just with my hands but with my heart.
all is dust.
all it takes just one bad day to reduce the sanest man alive to lunacy. that's how far the world is from where i am. just one bad day.
all language is but a poor translation.
all little girls should be told they are pretty, even if they aren't.
all my life i've wanted to be someone, i guess i should have been more specific.
all negative reactions are not caused from outside, its how we choose.
all of us do not have equal talent. but all of us have an equal opportunity to develop our talents.
all of your questions have answers.
all our dreams can come true, if we have the courage to pursue them.
all successful people men and women are big dreamers. they imagine what their future could be, ideal in every respect, and then they work every day toward their distant vision, that goal or purpose.
all that is gold does not glitter, not all those who wander are lost, the old that is strong does not wither, deep roots are not reached by the frost.
all that is not eternal is eternally out of date.
all that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream.
all that you can take with you is that which you've given away.
all the darkness in the world cannot extinguish the light of a single candle.
all the hardest, coldest people you meet were once as soft as water. and that's the tragedy of living.
all the problems in the world can be traced to what fathers do to their sons.
all the secrets of the world are contained in books. read at your own risk.
all the world is made of faith, and trust, and pixie dust.
all the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players, they have their exits and their entrances, and one man in his time plays many parts,his acts being seven ages.
all this extravaganza will never saturate your greed. you will always want more money, sex, drugs, bigger, faster and better. the threshold to true happiness is having food on your plate every day, a healthy body and someone to talk to.
all truly wise thoughts have been thought already thousands of times, but to make them truly ours, we must think them over again honestly, till they take root in our personal experience.
all we demanded was our right to twinkle.
all we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.
all you have to do is write one true sentence. write the truest sentence that you know.
all you need is love. but a little chocolate now and then doesn't hurt.
alone we can do so little, together we can do so much.
although the world is full of suffering, it is full also of the overcoming of it.
always be yourself, express yourself, have faith in yourself. do not go out and look for a successful personality and duplicate it.
always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. that will teach you to keep your mouth shut.
always do what you are afraid to do.
always forgive your enemies, nothing annoys them so much.
always forgive your enemies. nothing annoys them so much.
always leave something to wish for, otherwise you will be miserable from your very happiness.
always remember that the crowd that applauds your coronation is the same crowd that will applaud your beheading. people love a show.
always remember, you are much more bigger than your problems.
am i not destroying my enemies when i make friends of them.
among other things, you'll find that you're not the first person who was ever confused and frightened and even sickened by human behavior. you're by no means alone on that score, you'll be excited and stimulated to know. many, many men have been just as troubled morally and spiritually as you are right now. happily, some of them kept records of their troubles. you'll learn from them if you want to. just as someday, if you have something to offer, someone will learn something from you. it's a beautiful reciprocal arrangement. and it isn't education. it's history. it's poetry.
an acquaintance laughed at you and said something stupid on certain literary matter. now you're sending him a paper that demonstrates his lack of knowledge. what would it be the perfect companion.
an all too true.
an archaeologist is the best husband a woman can have. the older she gets the more interested he is in her.
an army of donkeys led by a lion is better than an army of lions led by a donkey.
an eye for an eye only ends up making the whole world blind.
an eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind.
an idealist is a person who helps other people to be prosperous.
an individual's self concept is the core of his personality. it affects every aspect of human behavior: the ability to learn, the capacity to grow and change. a strong, positive self image is the best possible preparation for success in life.
an intellectual says a simple thing in a hard way. an artist says a hard thing in a simple way.
an intelligent man cannot become anything seriously, and it is only the fool who becomes anything.
an object in possession seldom retains the same charm that it had in pursuit.
an ounce of practice is worth more than tons of preaching.
and by the way, everything in life is writable about if you have the outgoing guts to do it, and the imagination to improvise. the worst enemy to creativity is self doubt.
and i like large parties. they're so intimate. at small parties there isn't any privacy.
and i thought about how many people have loved those songs. and how many people got through a lot of bad times because of those songs. and how many people enjoyed good times with those songs. and how much those songs really mean. i think it would be great to have written one of those songs. i bet if i wrote one of them, i would be very proud. i hope the people who wrote those songs are happy. i hope they feel it's enough. i really do because they've made me happy. and i'm only one person.
and i'm suppose to sit by while you date boys and fall in love with someone else, get married.. his voice tightened. and meanwhile, i'll die a little bit more every day, watching.
and in that moment, i swear we were infinite.
and love is a thing that can never go wrong.
and no, this is not that meeting.
and no, we don't know where it will lead. we just know there's something much bigger than any of us here.
and now here is my secret, a very simple secret, it is only with the heart that one can see rightly, what is essential is invisible to the eye.
and now these three remain, faith, hope and love. but the greatest of these is love.
and once the storm is over you won't remember how you made it through, how you managed to survive. you won't even be sure, in fact, whether the storm is really over. but one thing is certain. when you come out of the storm you won't be the same person who walked in.
and once the storm is over you wont remember how you made it through, how you managed to survive. you wont even be sure, in fact, whether the storm is really over. but one thing is certain. when you come out of the storm you wont be the same person who walked in.
and once the storm is over, you won't remember how you made it through, how you managed to survive. you won't even be sure whether the storm is really over. but one thing is certain. when you come out of the storm, you won't be the same person who walked in.
and once the storm is over, you won't remember how you made it through, how you managed to survive. you won't even be sure, whether the storm is really over. but one thing is certain. when you come out of the storm, you won't be the same person who walked in. that's what this storm's all about.
and remember kids, tv violence is fine as long as you don't show a nipple.
and so from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe, and then, from hour to hour,we rot and rot, and thereby hangs a tale.
and that's the thing about people who mean everything they say. they think everyone else does too.
and the day came when the risk to remain tight in a bud was more painful than the risk it took to blossom.
and the rest is rust and stardust.
and then he gives me a smile that just seems so genuinely sweet with just the right touch of shyness that unexpected warmth rushes through me.
and then one day you find ten years have got behind you. no one told you when to run, you missed the starting gun.
and those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.
and when her lips met mine, i knew that i could live to be a hundred and visit every country in the world, but nothing would ever compare to that single moment when i first kissed the girl of my dreams and knew that my love would last forever.
and, in the end, the love you take is equal to the love you make.
anger and intolerance are the enemies of correct understanding.
anger is an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured.
angry people are not always wise.
angry, and half in love with her, and tremendously sorry, i turned away.
anxiety is the dizziness of freedom.
any belief that requires faith should be rejected for that reason.
any fool can be happy. it takes a man with real heart to make beauty out of the stuff that makes us weep.
any fool can criticize, complain, and condemn and most fools do. but it takes character and self control to be understanding and forgiving.
any fool can know. the point is to understand.
any fool knows men and women think differently at times, but the biggest difference is this. men forget, but never forgive, women forgive, but never forget.
any intelligent fool can make things bigger and more complex. it takes a touch of genius and a lot of courage to move in the opposite direction.
any intelligent fool can make things bigger, more complex, and more violent. it takes a touch of genius, and a lot of courage, to move in the opposite direction.
any man who can drive safely while kissing a pretty girl is simply not giving the kiss the attention it deserves.
any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking.
any mental activity is easy if it need not take reality into account.
anyone can love a rose, but it takes a lot to love a leaf. it's ordinary to love the beautiful, but it's beautiful to love the ordinary.
anyone can win a guinness world record. they just haven't tried.
anyone who falls in love is searching for the missing pieces of themselves. so anyone who's in love gets sad when they think of their lover. it's like stepping back inside a room you have fond memories of, one you haven't seen in a long time.
anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.
anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.
anyone who thinks that you can have infinite growth on a planet with finite resources is either a madman or an economist.
anything is worth doing as long as girls might be watching.
anything, im convinced, is possible. there is nothing human beings are incapable of.
appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.
appear where no one else can appear. create things that no one has ever seen before.
are you bored with life. then throw yourself into some work you believe in with all your heart, live for it, die for it, and you will find happiness that you had thought could never be yours.
arguing that you don't care about the right to privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don't care about free speech because you have nothing to say.
art is how we decorate space, music is how we decorate time.
art is not a democracy. people don't get to vote on how it ends.
art is the lie that enables us to realize the truth.
as he read, i fell in love the way you fall asleep, slowly, and then all at once.
as i get older, i pay less attention to what men say. i just watch what they do.
as i grow older, i pay less attention to what men say. i just watch what they do.
as if you could kill time without injuring eternity.
as is a tale, so is life, not how long it is but how good it is, is what matters.
as many different toilets as ive pooped in, ive never found one more comfortable than my own.
as soon as one is unhappy one becomes moral.
as soon as the fear approaches near, attack and destroy it.
as usual, there is a great woman behind every idiot.
as we look ahead into the next century, leaders will be those who empower others.
aside from the evil itself, lying is the root of evil.
asking questions is embarrassing for a moment, but not asking's embarrassing for a lifetime.
associate yourself with men of good quality if you esteem your own reputation, for tis better to be alone than in bad company.
at fifteen life had taught me undeniably that surrender, in its place, was as honorable as resistance, especially if one had no choice.
at some point, you just pull off the band aid, and it hurts, but then it's over and you're relieved.
at the end of every principle is a promise.
at the end of the day, life is about being happy being who you are, and i feel like we are so blessed to have the support system and the best family to really just support each other no matter what we're going through.
at the end of the game, the king and the pawn go back in the same box.
attention is the rarest and purest form of generosity.
atticus told me to delete the adjectives and i'd have the facts.
audacity and passion will always mean more to me than the ability to emulate the talents of others.
authors write books for one, and only one, reason, because we like to torture people.
basically, i have two speeds. hostile or smart aleck. your choice.
be a good person but don't waste time to prove it.
be a loner. that gives you time to wonder, to search for the truth. have holy curiosity. make your life worth living.
be a rainbow in someone else's cloud.
be a yardstick of quality. some people aren't used to an environment where excellence is expected.
be at war with your vices, at peace with your neighbors, and let every new year find you a better man.
be careful about reading health books. some fine day you'll die of a misprint.
be careful of love. it'll twist your brain around and leave you thinking up is down and right is wrong.
be careful of your self.
be courteous to all, but intimate with few, and let those few be well tried before you give them your confidence.
be courteous to all, but intimate with few, and let those few be well tried before you give them your confidence. true friendship is a plant of slow growth, and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity before it is entitled to the appellation.
be humble for you are made of earth, be noble for you are made of stars.
be humble, but let people know you worked for what you got and you're still going hard for it.
be kind for everyone you meet is fighting a harder battle.
be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle.
be like a finger pointing at the moon, but do not focus on the finger or you will miss all the heavenly glory.
be nice to nerds. chances are you'll end up working for one.
be nice to nerds. you may end up working for them. we all could.
be not afraid of greatness. some are born great, some achieve greatness, and others have greatness thrust upon them.
be patient toward all that is unsolved in your heart and try to love the questions themselves, like locked rooms and like books that are now written in a very foreign tongue. do not now seek the answers, which cannot be given you because you would not be able to live them. and the point is, to live everything. live the questions now. perhaps you will then gradually, without noticing it, live along some distant day into the answer.
be proud, to be out of your mind and out of control, one more time loud as you can how does it go.
be so good they can't ignore you.
be soft. do not let the world make you hard. do not let the pain make you hate. do not let the bitter steal your sweetness. take pride that even though the rest of the world may disagree you still believe it to be a beautiful place.
be the change that you wish to see in the world.
be the diaper that must be changed often and regularly.
be the person you needed when you were younger.
be wary the ones who run with old habits. they will never join you in your journey, you can only join them.
be who you are and say what you feel because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.
be who you are and say what you feel, because in the end those who matter don't mind and those who mind don't matter.
be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.
be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter, and those who matter don't mind.
be yourself, everyone else is already taken.
beauty is in the eye of the beholder and it may be necessary from time to time to give a stupid or misinformed beholder a black eye.
because a strong man, who has known power all his life, will lose respect for that power. but a weak man knows the value of strength, and knows compassion.
because the key to getting smart, is learning how to play dumb, and the key to getting old, is learning how to stay young.
because you are beautiful. i enjoy looking at beautiful people, and i decided a while ago not to deny myself the simpler pleasures of existence.
become good at cheating and you never need to become good at anything else.
becoming fearless isn't the point. that's impossible. it's learning how to control your fear, and how to be free from it.
before i became old i tried to live well, now that i am old, i shall try to die well, but dying well means dying gladly.
before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.
before you know it its 3 am and you're 80 years old and you can't remember what it was like to have 20 year old thoughts or a 10 year old heart.
begin at the beginning and go on till you come to the end, then stop.
beginning today, treat everyone you meet as if he/she were going to be dead by midnight. extend to them all of the care, kindness and understanding you can muster. and do so with no thought of any reward. your life will never be the same again.
behind every great man is a woman rolling her eyes.
being a woman is a terribly difficult trade since it consists principally of dealings with men.
being alone is better than being with the wrong person.
being crazy isn't enough.
being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.
being illiterate in the eighteenth century was like having a dial up connection in the twenty first. you're awash with information, but little reaches you, and what does takes a long time to download.
being the richest man in the cemetery doesn't matter to me. going to bed at night saying we've done something wonderful, that's what matters to me.
beneath the makeup and behind the smile i am just a girl who wishes for the world.
better to be criticized by a wise person than to be praised by a fool.
better to be strong than pretty and useless.
beware how you take away hope from another human being.
beware of all those in whom the urge to punish is strong.
beware that, when fighting monsters, you yourself do not become a monster, for when you gaze long into the abyss, the abyss also gazes into you.
birds born in a cage think flying is an illness.
blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
blessed is the man who, having nothing to say, abstains from giving us wordy evidence of the fact.
book collecting is an obsession, an occupation, a disease, an addiction, a fascination, an absurdity, a fate. it is not a hobby. those who do it must do it.
books are a uniquely portable magic.
books are for people who wish they were somewhere else.
books are like mirrors, if a fool looks in, you cannot expect a genius to look out.
books are mirrors, you only see in them what you already have inside you.
books are my friends, my companions. they make me laugh and cry and find meaning in life.
books are no more threatened by kindle than stairs by elevators.
books are the carriers of civilization. they are companions, teachers, magicians, bankers of the treasures of the mind. books are humanity in print.
books are the mirrors of the soul.
books are the perfect entertainment, no commercials, no batteries, hours of enjoyment for each dollar spent. what i wonder is why everybody doesn't carry a book around for those inevitable dead spots in life.
books are the plane, and the train, and the road. they are the destination, and the journey. they are home.
books are the quietest and most constant of friends, they are the most accessible and wisest of counselors, and the most patient of teachers.
books have a unique way of stopping time in a particular moment and saying, let's not forget this.
books may well be the only true magic.
books say, she did this because. life says, she did this. books are where things are explained to you, life is where things aren't. i'm not surprised some people prefer books.
books should go where they will be most appreciated, and not sit unread, gathering dust on a forgotten shelf, don't you agree.
books so special and rare and yours that advertising your affection feels like a betrayal.
books. cats. life is good.
build a man a fire, and he'll be warm for a day. set a man on fire, and he'll be warm for the rest of his life.
but a mermaid has no tears, and therefore she suffers so much more.
but better to get hurt by the truth than comforted with a lie.
but executing a left turn against oncoming traffic involves so many factors that it is hard to imagine discovering the set of rules that can replicate a drivers behavior.
but for my own part, if a book is well written, i always find it too short.
but in the end one needs more courage to live than to kill himself.
but luxury has never appealed to me, i like simple things, books, being alone, or with somebody who understands.
but metaphors help eliminate what separates you and me.
but still it's better to get hurt by the truth than comforted with a lie.
but what minutes. count them by sensation, and not by calendars, and each moment is a day.
by all means marry, if you get a good wife, you'll be happy. if you get a bad one, you'll become a philosopher.
by the time a man realizes that maybe his father was right, he usually has a son who thinks hes wrong.
by the time we've made it, we've had it.
by three methods we may learn wisdom, first, by reflection, which is noblest, second, by imitation, which is easiest, and third by experience, which is the bitterest.
can we stop deriding bread and circuses as if they're some sort of dastardly plot. if government is working as intended, bread and circuses are precisely the sorts of things that should be happening, correct.
can you look at a situation without naming it. naming it, making it a word, causes fear.
care about what other people think and you will always be their prisoner.
change is good. it can turn your strengths into invincible powers.
change is the only thing that is constant.
change your story, change your life.
chaos was the law of nature, order was the dream of man.
cheers to new year and another chance.
cherish all your happy moments, they make a fine cushion for old age.
childhood is like being drunk, everyone remembers what you did, except you.
chop your own wood and it will warm you twice.
chop your own wood, and it will warm you twice.
closing your eyes isn't going to change anything.
clothes make the man. naked people have little or no influence on society.
clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky.
coldest words ever spoken to a woman in a text argument.
colors are the smiles of nature.
coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.
common sense in an uncommon degree is what the world calls wisdom.
common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen.
confession of errors is like a broom which sweeps away the dirt and leaves the surface brighter and clearer. i feel stronger for confession.
confidence is not they will like me. confidence is i'll be fine if they don't.
count your age by friends, not years. count your life by smiles, not tears.every man has his secret sorrows which the world knows not, and often times we call a man cold when he is only sad.
courage does not always roar. sometimes courage is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, i will try again tomorrow.
courage is faith put into action.
courage is the most important of all the virtues because without courage, you can't practice any other virtue consistently.
creativity is just connecting things. when you ask creative people how they did something, they feel a little guilty because they didn't really do it. that's because they were able to connect experiences they've had and synthesize new things.
creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.
criticism is futile because it puts a person on the defensive and usually makes him strive to justify himself. criticism is dangerous, because it wounds a person's precious pride, hurts his sense of importance, and arouses resentment.
critics are men who sit and watch a battle from a high place and come down to shoot the survivors.
crocodiles are easy, they try to kill and eat you. people are harder. sometimes they pretend to be your friend first.
curious that we spend more time congratulating people who have succeeded than encouraging people who have not.
cut out a man's tongue and you don't prove him a liar, only that you're afraid of what he has to say.
cutting people out of your life doesn't mean you hate them, it simply means you respect yourself. not everyone is meant to stay.
dance, when you're broken open. dance, if you've torn the bandage off. dance in the middle of the fighting. dance in your blood. dance when you're perfectly free.
dare to be when a new day begins, dare to smile gratefully. when there is darkness, dare to be the first to shine a light. when there is injustice, dare to be the first to condemn it. when something seems difficult, dare to do it anyway. when life seems to beat you down, dare to fight back. when there seems to be no hope, dare to find some. when you're feeling tired, dare to keep going. when times are tough, dare to be tougher. when love hurts you, dare to love again. when someone is hurting, dare to help them heal. when another is lost, dare to help them find the way. when a friend falls, dare to be the first to extend a hand. when you cross paths with another, dare to make them smile. when you feel great, dare to help someone else feel great too. when the day has ended, dare to feel as you've done your best.dare to be the best you can at all times, dare to be.
darkness cannot drive out darkness, only light can do that. hate cannot drive out hate, only love can do that.
date a girl who reads.
dead people receive more flowers than the living ones because regret is stronger than gratitude.
deadlines just aren't real to me until i'm staring one in the face.
death ends a life, not a relationship.
death is a natural part of life. rejoice for those around you who transform into the force.
death is no more than passing from one room into another. but there's a difference for me, you know. because in that other room i shall be able to see.
death is only the end if you assume the story is about you.
death leaves cans of shaving cream half used.
death must be so beautiful. to lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence. to have no yesterday, and no tomorrow. to forget time, to forgive life, to be at peace.
decide . whether or not the goal is worth the risks involved. if it is, stop worrying.
deciding what not to do is as important as deciding what to do.
declarations of love amuse me. especially when unrequited.
defeat is a state of mind, no one is ever defeated until defeat has been accepted as a reality.
defending a position by citing free speech is the ultimate concession. you're saying that the most compelling thing you can say for your position is that it's not literally illegal to express.
democracy is not freedom. democracy is two wolves and a lamb voting on what to eat for lunch. freedom comes from the recognition of certain rights which may not be taken, not even by a 99 percent vote.
depression is living a body that tries to survive, with a mind that tries to die.
depression is more seductive, its tool is, wouldn't it be way more comfortable to stay inside and not deal with people. grief is an attack on life. its not a seducer. its an ambush or worse. it stands right out there and says, the minute you try something, i'm waiting for you.
deserves it. i daresay he does. many that live deserve death. and some that die deserve life. can you give it to them. then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. for even the very wise cannot see all ends.
despite all the accusations of videogames causing violence, not once has any gaming event, lead to a city being vandalized, rioted, looted or burned. but this is almost accepted as an event after many sports games, and yet they don't crusade against sports or it's fans.
destroying things is much easier than making them.
did you know that for pretty much the entire history of the human species, the average life span was less than thirty years. you could count on ten years or so of real adulthood, right. there was no planning for retirement, there was no planning for a career. there was no planning. no time for planning. no time for a future. but then the life spans started getting longer, and people started having more and more future. and now life has become the future. every moment of your life is lived for the future you go to high school so you can go to college so you can get a good job so you can get a nice house so you can afford to send your kids to college so they can get a good job so they can get a nice house so they can afford to send their kids to college.
difficulties come when you don't pay attention to life's whisper. life always whispers to you first, but if you ignore the whisper, sooner or later you'll get a scream.
dirty hands are a sign of clean money.
discouragement is the best inspiration.
do i not destroy my enemies when i make them my friends.
do it now sometimes later becomes never.
do just once what others say you can't do, and you will never pay attention to their limitations again.
do not compare yourself to anyone, unless you are comparing who is more righteous.
do not complain about growing old. it is a privilege denied to many.
do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time.
do not dwell in the past, do not dream of the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment.
do not fear to be eccentric in opinion, for every opinion now accepted was once eccentric.
do not go out of your way to please friends. instead go out of your way to do what pleases you, and along the way you will acquire friends who do not need pleasing.
do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.
do not indoctrinate your children. teach them how to think for themselves, how to evaluate evidence, and how to disagree with you.
do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark in the hopeless swamps of the not quite, the not yet, and the not at all. do not let the hero in your soul perish in lonely frustration for the life you deserved and have never been able to reach. the world you desire can be won. it exists. it is real. it is possible. it's yours.
do not look for approval except for the consciousness of doing your best.
do not pray for an easy life, pray for the strength to endure a difficult one.
do not raise your children the way your parents raised you, they were born for a different time.
do not read, as children do, to amuse yourself, or like the ambitious, for the purpose of instruction. no, read in order to live.
do not regret growing older, it is a privilege denied to many.
do not seek to follow in the footsteps of others, instead, seek what they sought.
do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not, remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.
do not take life to seriously. you will never get out alive.
do one thing every day that scares you.
do the right thing. it will gratify some people and astonish the rest.
do what is right, not what is easy.
do what you can, with what you have, where you are.
do what you feel in your heart to be right for you'll be criticized anyway.
do whatever seems interesting to you but you do it hard and get something done.
do you hate people.
do you wanna keep playing, or do you want to win.
do you wish me a good morning, or mean that it is a good morning whether i want it or not, or that you feel good this morning, or that it is a morning to be good on.
do your thing and don't care if they like it.
documentation is like sex, when it is good, it is very, very good, and when it is bad, it is better than nothing.
dogs never bite me. just humans.
don't be afraid of death, be afraid of an unlived life. you don't have to live forever, you just have to live.
don't be afraid of enemies who attack you. be afraid of the friends who flatter you.
don't be afraid of your fears. they're not there to scare you. they're there to let you know that something is worth it.
don't be trapped by dogma, which is living with the results of other people's thinking.
don't compare yourself with anyone in this world if you do so, you are insulting yourself.
don't compare yourself with anyone in this world. if you do so you are insulting yourself.
don't confuse having a career with having a life.
don't confuse the truth with the opinion of the majority.
don't cry because it's over, smile because it happened.
don't cry because it's over. smile because it happened.
don't depend too much on anyone in this world because even your own shadow leaves you when you are in darkness.
don't educate your children to be rich. educate them to be happy. so when they grow up they will know the value of things not the price.
don't ever tell anybody anything. if you do, you start missing everybody.
don't fall in love with the moment and think you're in love with the girl.
don't forget you're alive. cause sometimes when you walk around the city and you're in a bad mood, you can think, hey, wait a minute, we're alive. we don't know what the next second will bring and what a fantastic thing this is. this can get easily forgotten in the routine of life.
don't gain the world & lose your soul, wisdom is better than silver or gold.
don't go around saying the world owes you a living, the world owes you nothing, it was here first.
don't go around saying the world owes you a living. the world owes you nothing. it was here first.
don't grieve. anything you lose comes round in another form.
don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant.
don't just listen to a good advice, but also take it.
don't kill doves in the garden. you kill one and the others won't come.
don't let other people tell you what to do in life and don't simply rely on other's advice, learn to make your own decisions.most people giving advice have no idea what they're talking about anyway.
don't let school interfere with your education.
don't let the noise of others opinions drown out your own inner voice. have the courage to follow your own heart and intuition.
don't listen to the cynics. they were wrong about my generation and they were wrong about yours.
don't measure yourself by what you have accomplished, but by what you should have accomplished with your ability.
don't mistake my kindness for weakness. i am kind to everyone, but when someone is unkind to me, weak is not what you are going to remember about me.
don't panic.
don't part with your illusions. when they are gone you may still exist, but you have ceased to live.
don't say you don't have enough time. you have exactly the same number of hours per day that were given to helen keller, pasteur, michaelangelo, mother teresa, leonardo da vinci, thomas jefferson, and albert einstein.
don't squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the ignorant, the common, and the vulgar.
don't take life too seriously. punch it in the face when it needs a good hit. laugh at it.
don't talk, think.
don't teach your children to read, teach them to also question what they read. teach them to question everything.
don't tell me the moon is shining, show me the glint of light on broken glass.
don't think or judge, just listen.
don't try to solve serious matters in the middle of the night.
don't wait for a light to appear at the end of the tunnel, stride down there and light the bloody thing yourself.
don't walk in front of me, i may not follow. don't walk behind me, i may not lead. just walk beside me and be my friend.
don't waste your time chasing butterflies. mend your garden, and the butterflies will come.
don't worry about failure, you only have to be right once.
don't you dare shrink yourself for someone else's comfort. do not become small, for people who refuse to grow.
don't you find it odd, she continued, that when you're a kid, everyone, all the world, encourages you to follow your dreams. but when you're older, somehow they act offended if you even try.
dont give time of day to those who wont do the same.
doubt is not a pleasant condition, but certainty is absurd.
doubt isn't the opposite of faith; it is an element of faith.
dream is not that you see in the sleep, dream is that does not allow you to sleep.
drugs are not forbidden because they are bad, drugs are forbidden because they are good. but . fuck you.
each day means a new twenty four hours. each day means everything's possible again. you live in the moment, you die in the moment, you take it all one day at a time.
each friend represents a world in us, a world possibly not born until they arrive, and it is only by this meeting that a new world is born.
early to rise and early to bed makes a man healthy but socially dead.
early to rise, early to bed, makes a man healthy, but socially dead.
earth is no more than a momentary incident in the unending cyclical chaos of the universe.
earthlings may have been hopelessly misguided on every possible level, but at least it was by choice.
eating and reading are two pleasures that combine admirably.
education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.
education is not the learning of facts, but the training of the mind to think.
education is the key to unlock the golden door of freedom.
education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.
education is what remains after one has forgotten what one has learned in school.
either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.
eleanor was right. she never looked nice. she looked like art, and art wasn't supposed to look nice, it was supposed to make you feel something.
elephants, it seems, can be brought down with string. perhaps there are no elephants.
elfishness is not living as one wishes to live. it is asking others to live as one wishes to live.
employ thy time well, if thou meanest to get leisure.
empty your cup so that it may be filled, become devoid to gain totality.
empty your mind, be formless, shapeless like water. now you put water in a cup, it becomes the cup, you put water into a bottle it becomes the bottle, you put it in a teapot it becomes the teapot. now water can flow or it can crash. be water my friend.
enjoy it. because it's happening.
enjoy when you can, and endure when you must.
enjoy while you can. of course, parents can be pain, school sucks and life is depressing. but someday you'll realize how wonderful it was to be a kid.
entertainment is the only thing that distracts people from how much they don't like each other.
envy is painful, but its a very helpful emotion for a happy life. its a giant red arrow sign standing over someones head saying, they've got something you want.
even a happy life cannot be without a measure of darkness, and the word happy would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness.
even castles in the sky can do with a fresh coat of paint.
even death has a heart.
even if we could turn back, we'd probably never end up where we started.
even if you are on the right track, you'll get run over if you just sit there.
even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise.
ever had a flying burrito hit you. well, it's a deadly projectile, right up there with cannonballs and grenades.
ever since i learned about confirmation bias, i've been seeing it everywhere.
every action has its pleasures and its prices.
every child is an artist. the problem is how to remain an artist once he grows up.
every generation imagines itself to be more intelligent than the one that went before it, and wiser than the one that comes after it.
every generation laughs at the old fashions, but follows religiously the new.
every great love starts with a great story.
every heart sings a song, incomplete, until another heart whispers back. those who wish to sing always find a song. at the touch of a lover, everyone becomes a poet.
every human interaction should be sincere. assume everyone else is better than you in some way. observe, learn, and live better than before.
every improvement in communication makes the bore more terrible.
every life is in many days, day after day. we walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers in love. but always meeting ourselves.
every man has his fate. all that remains is how he chooses to meet it.
every man has his secret sorrows which the world knows not, and often times we call a man cold when he is only sad.
every man i meet wants to protect me. i can't figure out what from.
every man is a creature of the age in which he lives, and few are able to raise themselves above the ideas of the time.
every man is a damn fool for at least five minutes every day, wisdom consists in not exceeding the limit.
every man is guilty of all the good he did not do.
every moment you live in the past is a moment you waste in the present.
every normal man must be tempted, at times, to spit on his hands, hoist the black flag, and begin slitting throats.
every now and then i like to do as i'm told, just to confuse people.
every once in a while you're gonna get a bad slice of pizza and theres nothing you can do about it.
every one lives by selling something, whatever be his right to it.
every person is smart enough to know what they're feeling.
every person, genius or moron, has a right to reproduce himself.
every time a species is lost, it's like extinguishing a room full of candles one by one. you might not notice when the first few flames flicker out, but in the end, you're left sitting in the darkness.
everybody has a plan until they get punched in the mouth.
everybody has a secret world inside of them. i mean everybody. all of the people in the whole world, i mean everybody no matter how dull and boring they are on the outside. inside them they've all got unimaginable, magnificent, wonderful, stupid, amazing worlds. not just one world. hundreds of them. thousands, maybe.
everybody is a genius. but if you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, it will live its whole life believing that it is stupid.
everybody is identical in their secret unspoken belief that way deep down they are different from everyone else.
everybody wants something in their life, but we don't get what we want. we get what we have to have.
everyone has talent. what's rare is the courage to follow it to the dark places where it leads.
everyone has their own special sound they live with, though they seldom have the chance to actually hear it.
everyone is in favor of free speech. hardly a day passes without its being extolled, but some people's idea of it is that they are free to say what they like, but if anyone else says anything back, that is an outrage.
everyone is talking and quoting about dream, ambition, success.
everyone seems to have a clear idea of how other people should lead their lives, but none about his or her own.
everyone sees what you appear to be, few experience what you really are.
everyone should be able to do one card trick, tell two jokes, and recite three poems, in case they are ever trapped in an elevator.
everyone thinks forgiveness is a lovely idea until he has something to forgive.
everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.
everyone wants to fall in love. but i think more people are in love with the theory of love.
everyone wants to save the world, but no one wants to help mom do the dishes.everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.
everyone you will ever meet knows something you don't.
everyone, at some point in their lives, wakes up in the middle of the night with the feeling that they are all alone in the world, and that nobody loves them now and that nobody will ever love them, and that they will never have a decent night's sleep again and will spend their lives wandering blearily around a loveless landscape, hoping desperately that their circumstances will improve, but suspecting, in their heart of hearts, that they will remain unloved forever. the best thing to do in these circumstances is to wake somebody else up, so that they can feel this way, too.
everything comes too late for those who only wait.
everything has been thought of before, but the difficulty is to think of it again.
everything i've ever let go of has claw marks on it.
everything in the world is about sex except sex. sex is about power.
everything is energy.
everything is possible. the impossible just takes longer.
everything tells me that i am about to make a wrong decision, but making mistakes is just part of life. what does the world want of me. does it want me to take no risks, to go back to where i came from because i didn't have the courage to say yes to life.
everything that happens changes something, nothing that happens changes nothing.
everything was beautiful and nothing hurt.
everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. everything we see is a perspective, not a truth.
everything you can imagine is real.
everything you do now is for your future.
expecting the world to treat you fairly because you're a good person is like expecting a bull not to attack you because you're a vegetarian.
experience has taught me that there is one chief reason why some people succeed and others fail. the difference is not one of knowing, but of doing. the successful man is not so superior in ability as in action. so far as success can be reduced to a formula, it consists of this, doing what you know you should do.
experience is merely the name men gave to their mistakes.
experience is not what happens to a man, it is what a man does with what happens to him.
experience is that marvelous thing that enables you to recognize a mistake when you make it again.
experience is the name everyone gives to their mistakes.
experience proves this, or that, or nothing, according to the preconceptions we bring to it.
experience teaches only the teachable.
experts often possess more data than judgment.
explore everything, exploit none.
facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored.
failure does not exist, these are only results.
failure is simply an opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently.
failure is the condiment that gives success its flavor.
faith is taking the first step even when you can't see the whole staircase.
faith is the strength by which a shattered world shall emerge into the light.
faith which does not doubt is dead faith.
faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens.
fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living, it's a way of looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope, and that enables you to laugh at life's realities.
fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living, it's a way of looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope.
fantasy is escapist, and that is its glory. if a soldier is imprisoned by the enemy, don't we consider it his duty to escape. if we value the freedom of mind and soul, if we're partisans of liberty, then it's our plain duty to escape, and to take as many people with us as we can.
fantasy is hardly an escape from reality. it's a way of understanding it.
far too many people are looking for the right person, instead of trying to be the right person.
fate is like a strange, unpopular restaurant filled with odd little waiters who bring you things you never asked for and don't always like.
fate whispers to the man you cannot withstand the storm and the man whispers back i am the storm.
fear cuts deeper than swords.
fear doesn't shut you down, it wakes you up.
fear not, though devil's iron makes this blade, only he who wields it can make it wicked.
fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself.
feel no sadness because of evil thoughts, it only strengthens them.
feelings are really your guidance system for life. when your supposed to do something, or not supposed to do something, your emotional guidance system lets you know.
fettuccine alfredo is macaroni and cheese for adults.
few people think more than two or three times a year. i have made an international reputation for myself by thinking once or twice a week.
few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example.
fiction is the truth inside the lie.
fifteen hundred years ago everybody knew the earth was the center of the universe. five hundred years ago, everybody knew the earth was flat, and fifteen minutes ago, you knew that humans were alone on this planet. imagine what you'll know tomorrow.
find a place inside where there's joy, and the joy will burn out the pain.
find what you love and let it kill you.
finish each day and be done with it. you have done what you could do. some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in, forget them as soon as you can. tomorrow is a new day. you shall begin it serenely and with too high a spirit to be encumbered with your old nonsense.
fire is catching. and if we burn, you burn with us.
first and second class arrive at the same time.
first they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.
first they ignore you, then they ridicule you, then they fight you, and then you win.
first they laugh, then they'll copy.
first you take a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes you.
focus on what you can do right now, not what you can't do right now.
focusing is about saying no.
folks are usually about as happy as they make their minds up to be.
follow that will and that way which experience confirms to be your own.
follow your bliss and the universe will open doors for you where there were only walls.
follow your inner moonlight, don't hide the madness.
for each person there is a sentence a series of words which has the power to destroy him.
for every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.
for last year's words belong to last year's language and next year's words await another voice.
for many men, the acquisition of wealth does not end their troubles, it only changes them.
for me life is continuously being hungry. the meaning of life is not simply to exist, to survive, but to move ahead, to go up, to achieve, to conquer.
for me, survival is the ability to cope with difficulties, with circumstances, and to overcome them.
for someone like me, it is a very strange habit to write in a diary. not only that i have never written before, but it strikes me that later neither i, nor anyone else, will care for the musings of a thirteen year old schoolgirl.
for the first time in my life, i understood how someone could consciously decide to commit suicide. not because they were deranged, not because they were nuts, because they had been to the top of the mountain, and they just knew in their heart they would never get there again.
for the past 33 years, i have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself, if today were the last day of my life, would i want to do what i am about to do today. and whenever the answer has been no for too many days in a row, i know i need to change something.
for the two of us, home isn't a place. it is a person. and we are finally home.
for what its worth, its never too late to be whoever you want to be. i hope you live a life you're proud of, and if you find you're not, i hope you have the strength to start over again.
for you, a thousand times over.
for you, i was a chapter, a good chapter maybe, or even your favorite chapter, but, still, just a chapter and for me, you were the book.
for you, i was a chapter. for me, you were the book.
forever is composed of nows.
forget safety.live where you fear to live.destroy your reputation.be notorious.
forgive your enemies but never forget their names.
forgive yourself for not knowing what you didn't know before you learned it.
forgiveness is not real unless it brings healing to your brother and yourself.
forgiveness liberates the soul. it removes fear. that is why it is such a powerful weapon.
free yourself from suffering and despair, and you will be victorious. do this for others, and you will be a hero.
freedom discovers man the moment he looses concern over what impression he is making or about to make.
freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.
friend is someone you share last cookie with.
friends are like stars, you may not always see them, but you always know they are there.
friends have all things in common.
friendship doubles our joy and divides our grief.
friendship is a single soul dwelling in two bodies.
friendship is born at that moment when one person says to another, what. you too. i thought i was the only one.
friendship is the hardest thing in the world to explain. it's not something you learn in school. but if you haven't learned the meaning of friendship, you really haven't learned anything.
friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art. it has no survival value, rather it is one of those things which give value to survival.
friendship often ends in love, but love in friendship never.
friendship with oneself is all important because without it one cannot be friends with anyone else in the world.
friendship, like the immortality of the soul, is too good to be believed. when friendships are real, they are not glass threads or frost work, but the solidest things we know.
from the ages of 18 to 22, you meet a lot of temporary people.
from the moment i picked up your book until i put it down, i was convulsed with laughter. some day i intend reading it.
from this hour i ordain myself loos'd of limits and imaginary lines.
from those to whom much is given much is expected.
funny that all of nixon's crimes anonymous campaign cash, wiretapping, undeclared wars are all legal now. discuss.
gentlemen, we will chase perfection, and we will chase it relentlessly, knowing all the while we can never attain it. but along the way, we shall catch excellence.
get happiness out of your work or you may never know what happiness is.
get your head in the right place before somebody puts it in the wrong place.
give a girl the right shoes, and she can conquer the world.
give a little love to a child, and you get a great deal back.
give a man a fire and he's warm for a day, but set fire to him and he's warm for the rest of his life.
give a man a mask and he will show his true face.
give me six hours to chop down a tree and i will spend the first four sharpening the axe.
give your enemy a thousand chances to become your friend, but do not give your friend a single chance to become your enemy.
give yourself permission to walk away from anything that gives you negative energy. there is no need to explain or make sense of it. trust yourself.
go after what you want in life because the things that scare us are damn tiny compared to that bastard called death.
go ahead, judge a book by its cover. just remember that the person who designed it probably didn't write the book.
go and sin no more.
goals are like magnets. they'll attract the things that make them come true.
good books don't give up all their secrets at once.
good done anywhere is good done everywhere.
good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience, this is the ideal life.
good judgement comes from experience. and experience, well, that comes from poor judgement.
good judgment comes from experience. experience comes from bad judgment.
good people are like candles. they burn themselves out trying to give others light.
good people do not need laws to tell them to act responsibly, while bad people will find a way around the laws.
good speech should be like a girl's skirt. long enough to cover the subject, short enough to create interest.
gratitude turns what we have into enough.
gravitation is not responsible for people falling in love.
great ability develops and reveals itself increasingly with every new assignment.
great changes may not happen right away, but with effort even the difficult may become easy.
great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
great story's aren't written, they're rewritten.
grief can take care of itself, but to get the full value of joy you must have somebody to divide it with.
grief changes shape, but it never ends.happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing i know.
grief does not change you, it reveals you.
growing apart doesn't change the fact that for a long time we grew side by side, our roots will always be tangled. i'm glad for that.
half the work that is done in this world is to make things appear what they are not.
happiness and moral duty are inseparably connected.
happiness consists in activity. it is running stream, not a stagnant pool.
happiness depends upon ourselves.
happiness exists when you don't know a thing.
happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing i know.
happiness is a butterfly, which, when pursued, is always just beyond your grasp, but which, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you.
happiness is a sunset, it is there for all, but most of us look the other way and lose it.
happiness is a swedish sunset, it is there for all, but most of us look the other way and lose it.
happiness is a warm puppy.
happiness is beneficial for the body, but it is grief that develops the powers of the mind.
happiness is having a large, loving, caring, close knit family in another city.
happiness is like a butterfly, the more you chase it, the more it will elude you, but if you turn your attention to other things, it will come and sit softly on your shoulder.
happiness is not a destination. it is a method of life.
happiness is not something ready made. it comes from your own actions.
happiness is not something you postpone for the future; it is something you design for the present.
happiness is so hard to define and foolish to define. am i acting. that's the worst thing you can ask yourself. you can be happy suddenly. it can spring on you, not when you reach a plateau. you can be happy going backward or going down. you can be happy at the loss of something.
happiness is the art of never holding in your mind the memory of any unpleasant thing that has passed.
happiness is the consequence of personal effort. you fight for it, strive for it, insist upon it, and sometimes even travel around the world looking for it. you have to participate relentlessly in the manifestations of your own blessings. and once you have achieved a state of happiness, you must never become lax about maintaining it. you must make a mighty effort to keep swimming upward into that happiness forever, to stay afloat on top of it.
happiness is the full use of your powers along lines of excellence.
happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.
happiness makes up in height for what it lacks in length.
happiness serves hardly any other purpose than to make unhappiness possible.
happy hunger games. and may the odds be ever in your favor.
hate the sin, love the sinner.
have enough courage to trust love one more time and always one more time.
have i not destroyed my enemy when i have made friends with him.
have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. they somehow already know what you truly want to become. everything else is secondary.
have you ever been in love. horrible isn't it. it makes you so vulnerable. it opens your chest and it opens up your heart and it means that someone can get inside you and mess you up. you build up all these defenses, you build up a whole suit of armor, so that nothing can hurt you, then one stupid person, no different from any other stupid person, wanders into your stupid life. you give them a piece of you. they didn't ask for it. they did something dumb one day, like kiss you or smile at you, and then your life isn't your own anymore. love takes hostages. it gets inside you. it eats you out and leaves you crying in the darkness, so simple a phrase like maybe we should be just friends turns into a glass splinter working its way into your heart. it hurts. not just in the imagination. not just in the mind. it's a soul hurt, a real gets inside you and rips you apart pain. i hate love.
have you ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac.
having children makes you no more a paren't than having a piano makes you a pianist.
having money is a way of being free of money.
he does something to me, that boy. every time. it's his only detriment. he steps on my heart. he makes me cry.
he felt that his whole life was some kind of dream and he sometimes wondered whose it was and whether they were enjoying it.
he has achieved success who has lived well, laughed often, and loved much, who has enjoyed the trust of pure women, the respect of intelligent men and the love of little children, who has filled his niche and accomplished his task, who has never lacked appreciation of earth's beauty or failed to express it, who has left the world better than he found it, whether an improved poppy, a perfect poem, or a rescued soul, who has always looked for the best in others and given them the best he had, whose life was an inspiration, whose memory a benediction.
he never went out without a book under his arm, and he often came back with two.
he only earns his freedom and existence who daily conquers them anew.
he past can hurt. but the way i see it, you can either run from it, or learn from it.
he said, the musicians play their instruments. i play the orchestra.
he that lives upon hope will die fasting.
he was a man, take him for all in all, i shall not look upon his like again.
he who controls the past controls the future. he who controls the present controls the past.
he who doesn't believe himself always lies.
he who has a why to live for can bear almost any how.
he who is not courageous enough to take risks will accomplish nothing in life.
he who learns but does not think, is lost. he who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.
he's a wallflower. you see things. you keep quiet about them. and you understand.
he's like a drug for you, bella.
he's more myself than i am. whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same.
he's not perfect. you aren't either, and the two of you will never be perfect. but if he can make you laugh at least once, causes you to think twice, and if he admits to being human and making mistakes, hold onto him and give him the most you can. he isn't going to quote poetry, he's not thinking about you every moment, but he will give you a part of him that he knows you could break. don't hurt him, don't change him, and don't expect for more than he can give. don't analyze. smile when he makes you happy, yell when he makes you mad, and miss him when he's not there. love hard when there is love to be had. because perfect guys don't exist, but there's always one guy that is perfect for you.
hear no evil, speak no evil and you'll never be invited to a party.
helicopters are like women, you know they work and trust them, but if you make any effort to understand them whatsoever, you'd be to terrified to go near them.
hen an honest man discovers he is mistaken, he will either cease to be mistaken or cease to be honest.
her insolence is outrageous, but the gentleman in me allows for no retaliation.
here's all you have to know about men and women, women are crazy, men are stupid. and the main reason women are crazy is that men are stupid.
here's to books, the cheapest vacation you can buy.
historically, the most terrible things war, genocide, and slavery have resulted not from disobedience, but from obedience.
history doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme.
history is filled with the sound of silken slippers going downstairs and wooden shoes coming up.
history is the version of past events that people have decided to agree upon.
history will be kind to me for i intend to write it.
history, despite its wrenching pain, cannot be unlived, but if faced with courage, need not be lived again.
hold fast to dreams, for if dreams die, life is a broken.
hold fast to dreams,for if dreams dielife is a broken winged bird, that cannot fly.
holding hate in your heart is like drinking poison and expecting the other person to die.
honestly. stop trying to find yourself. great people don't discover their greatness, they create it. you're a nobody until you work to make yourself the person you wish to be.
honesty is a healer.
hope is a waking dream.
hope is itself a species of happiness, and, perhaps, the chief happiness which this world affords, but, like all other pleasures immoderately enjoyed, the excesses of hope must be expiated by pain, and expectations improperly indulged must end in disappointment.
hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul and sings the tunes without the words and never stops at all.
hope rises and dreams flicker and die. love plans for tomorrow and loneliness thinks of yesterday. life is beautiful and living is pain.
how bold one gets when one is sure of being loved.
how can it be that it is not a news item when an elderly homeless person dies of exposure, but it is news when the stock market loses two points.
how did it get so late so soon. it's night before it's afternoon. december is here before it's june. my goodness how the time has flown. how did it get so late so soon.
how do you defeat an enemy who looks into the barrel of a gun and sees paradise.
how do you tell the difference between striving for growth and pretending to be something that you're not.
how i wish that somewhere there existed an island for those who are wise and of goodwill in such a place even i would be an ardent patriot.
how i wish that somewhere there existed an island for those who are wise and of goodwill. in such a place even i would be an ardent patriot.
how lucky i am to have known somebody and something that saying goodbye to is so damned awful.
how lucky i am to have something that makes saying goodbye hard.
how many slams in an old screen door. depends how loud you shut it. how many slices in a bread. depends how thin you cut it. how much good inside a day. depends how good you live em. how much love inside a friend. depends how much you give em.
how odd i can have all this inside me and to you its just words.
how vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.
how wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.
how wrong is it for a woman to expect the man to build the world she wants, rather than to create it herself.
human kindness has no reward. you should give to others in every way you see expect absolutely nothing from anyone. it should be your goal to love every human you encounter. all human suffering that you're aware of and continues without your effort to stop it becomes your crime.
humility is not thinking less of yourself, it's thinking of yourself less.
i am a badass, and i recognize that you, too, are a badass.
i am a cage, in search of a bird.
i am a thing that thinks, that is to say, a thing that doubts, affirms, denies, understands a few things, is ignorant of many things, wills, refrains from willing, and also imagines and senses.
i am an excitable person who only understands life lyrically, musically, in whom feelings are much stronger as reason. i am so thirsty for the marvelous that only the marvelous has power over me. anything i can not transform into something marvelous, i let go. reality doesn't impress me. i only believe in intoxication, in ecstasy, and when ordinary life shackles me, i escape, one way or another. no more walls.
i am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.
i am coming to terms with the fact that loving someone requires a leap of faith, and that a soft landing is never guaranteed.
i am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. imagination is more important than knowledge. knowledge is limited. imagination encircles the world.
i am free of all prejudice. i hate everyone equally.
i am free, no matter what rules surround me. if i find them tolerable, i tolerate them, if i find them too obnoxious, i break them. i am free because i know that i alone am morally responsible for everything i do.
i am good, but not an angel. i do sin, but i am not the devil. i am just a small girl in a big world trying to find someone to love.
i am guilty of a dreadful, selfish crime. i have robbed myself of all my precious time.
i am haunted by humans.
i am human, nothing human can be alien to me.
i am messy. and i am emotional. i am flawed but i strive to be the best version of myself.
i am no bird, and no net ensnares me, i am a free human being with an independent will.
i am not afraid of an army of lions led by a sheep, i am afraid of an army of sheep led by a lion.
i am not handsome but i can give my hand to someone who needs help because beauty is required in the heart, not in the face.
i am not pretty. i am not beautiful. i am as radiant as the sun.
i am not sure that i exist, actually. i am all the writers that i have read, all the people that i have met, all the women that i have loved, all the cities i have visited.
i am not young enough to know everything.
i am nothing special, of this i am sure. i am a common man with common thoughts and i've led a common life. there are no monuments dedicated to me and my name will soon be forgotten, but i've loved another with all my heart and soul, and to me, this has always been enough.
i am only one, but still i am one. i cannot do everything, but still i can do something. and because i cannot do everything, i will not refuse to do the something that i can do.
i am part of a lost generation.
i am selfish. i am brave.
i am sure care's an enemy to life.
i am very interested and fascinated how everyone loves each other, but no one really likes each other.
i am weird, you are weird. everyone in this world is weird. one day two people come together in mutual weirdness and fall in love.
i am, somehow, less interested in the weight and convolutions of einstein's brain than in the near certainty that people of equal talent have lived and died in cotton fields and sweatshops.
i am, somehow, less interested in the weight and convolutions of einsteins brain than in the near certainty that people of equal talent have lived and died in cotton fields and sweatshops.
i avoid looking backward or forward, and try to keep looking upward.
i became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity.
i believe that children are our future. unless we stop them now.
i believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge. that myth is more potent than history. that dreams are more powerful than facts. that hope always triumphs over experience. that laughter is the only cure for grief. and i believe that love is stronger than death.
i believe that sex is one of the most beautiful, natural, and wholesome things that money can buy.
i believe the universe wants to be noticed. i think the universe is improbably biased toward the consciousness, that it rewards intelligence in part because the universe enjoys its elegance being observed. and who am i, living in the middle of history, to tell the universe that it or my observation of it is temporary.
i can never read all the books i want, i can never be all the people i want and live all the lives i want. i can never train myself in all the skills i want. and why do i want. i want to live and feel all the shades, tones and variations of mental and physical experience possible in my life. and i am horribly limited.
i can resist anything except temptation.
i can resist everything except temptation.
i can see clearly now.
i can shake off everything as i write, my sorrows disappear, my courage is reborn.
i can't change the direction of the wind, but i can adjust my sails to always reach my destination.
i can't give you a sure fire formula for success, but i can give you a formula for failure, try to please everybody all the time.
i can't imagine a man really enjoying a book and reading it only once.
i can't understand why people are frightened by new ideas. i'm frightened of old ones.
i cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look or the words, which laid the foundation. it is too long ago. i was in the middle before i knew that i had begun.
i cannot live without books.
i cannot remember the books i've read any more than the meals i have eaten, even so, they have made me.
i cannot sleep unless i am surrounded by books.
i care not what others think of what i do, but i care very much about what i think of what i do. that is character.
i choose a lazy person to do a hard job. because a lazy person will find an easy way to do it.
i collect quotes. every time i see one i like i add it to a list in my phone. here it is so far.
i confess, i do not believe in time.
i could've been anything i wanted. and, one by one, i didn't become any of them.
i declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading. how much sooner one tires of any thing than of a book. when i have a house of my own, i shall be miserable if i have not an excellent library.
i did not attend his funeral, but i sent a nice letter saying i approved of it.
i did then what i knew how to do. now that i know better, i do better.
i didn't need you, you idiot. i picked you. and then you picked me back.
i didn't want to wake up. i was having a much better time asleep. and that's really sad. it was almost like a reverse nightmare, like when you wake up from a nightmare you're so relieved. i woke up into a nightmare.
i disapprove of what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it.
i dislike and despise groups of people but i love individuals. every person you look at, you can see the universe in their eyes  if you're really looking.
i do not fear death. i had been dead for billions and billions of years before i was born, and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.
i do not know what i may appear to the world, but to myself i seem to have been only like a boy playing on the seashore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me.
i do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. i love only that which they defend.
i do not measure a man's success by how high he climbs but how high he bounces when he hits bottom.
i do not think there is any thrill that can go through the human heart like that felt by the inventor as he sees some creation of the brain unfolding to success such emotions make a man forget food, sleep, friends, love, everything.
i do not want a friend who smiles when i smile, who weeps when i weep, for my shadow in the pool can do better than that.
i do not want people to be very agreeable, as it saves me the trouble of liking them a great deal.
i do things like get in a taxi and say, the library, and step on it.
i don't believe in the kind of magic in my books. but i do believe something very magical can happen when you read a good book.
i don't believe people are looking for the meaning of life as much as they are looking for the experience of being alive.
i don't count the sit ups. i only start counting when it starts hurting because they're the only ones that count. that's what makes you a champion.
i don't drink these days. i am allergic to alcohol and narcotics. i break out in handcuffs.
i don't embrace trouble, that's as bad as treating it as an enemy. but i do say meet it as a friend, for you'll see a lot of it and had better be on speaking terms with it.
i don't generally feel anything until noon, then it's time for my nap.
i don't go looking for trouble. trouble usually finds me.
i don't hate them. i just feel better when they're not around.the saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.
i don't have many failures. if i'm making a cake and it fails, it becomes a pudding.
i don't know a perfect person. i only know flawed people who are still worth loving.
i don't know half of you half as well as i should like, and i like less than half of you half as well as you deserve.
i don't know if you've ever felt like that. that you wanted to sleep for a thousand years. or just not exist. or just not be aware that you do exist. or something like that. i think wanting that is very morbid, but i want it when i get like this. that's why i'm trying not to think. i just want it all to stop spinning.
i don't know that love changes. people change. circumstances change.
i don't know the key to success, but the key to failure is trying to please everybody.
i don't make the rules. i just follow them.
i don't mind living in a man's world, as long as i can be a woman in it.
i don't need luck. i don't want it. i've always had to struggle and fight, and that's made me strong. it's made me who i am.
i don't really care about being right, i just care about success.
i don't repeat myself. i don't repeat myself.
i don't scratch my head unless it itches, i don't dance unless i hear some music, and i will not be intimidated.
i don't trust people who don't love themselves and tell me, i love you.
i don't trust people who don't love themselves and tell me, i love you. a great fire burns within me, but no one stops to warm themselves at it, and passers by only see a wisp of smoke.
i don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. i want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.
i don't want to believe. i want to know.
i don't want to earn my living, i want to live.
i don't want to lose the boy with the bread.
i don't want to repeat my innocence. i want the pleasure of losing it again.
i dream my painting and i paint my dream.
i dream of giving birth to a child who will ask, mother, what was war.
i dream. sometimes i think that's the only right thing to do.
i drink much less than most people think and i think much more than most people would believe.
i drink to make other people more interesting.
i eat because i'm unhappy, and i'm unhappy because i eat.
i fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but i fear the man who had practiced one kick 10,000 times.
i fear the day technology will surpass our human interaction. the world will have a generation of idiots.
i fell in love with her courage, her sincerity, and her flaming self respect. and it's these things i'd believe in, even if the whole world indulged in wild suspicions that she wasn't all she should be. i love her and it is the beginning of everything.
i finally understood what true love meant.love meant that you care for another person's happiness more than your own, no matter how painful the choices you face might be.
i find a duck's opinion of me is very much influenced by whether or not i have bread.
i find television very educating. every time somebody turns on the set, i go into the other room and read a book.
i find that a ducks opinion of me is very much influenced over whether or not i have bread.
i forgot to order plant food.
i found out that there weren't too many limitations if i did it my way.
i generally avoid temptation unless i can't resist it.
i had the blues because i had no shoes, until i met a man who had no feet.
i hate to advocate drugs, alcohol, violence, or insanity to anyone, but they've always worked for me.
i hate to hear you talk about all women as if they were fine ladies instead of rational creatures. none of us want to be in calm waters all our lives.
i have a theory that selflessness and bravery aren't all that different.
i have achieved what every artist wants, which is that some of their work will outlive them.
i have always imagined that paradise will be a kind of library.
i have always thought the actions of men the best interpreters of their thoughts.
i have as much authority as the pope, i just don't have as many people who believe it.
i have been through some terrible things in my life, some of which actually happened.
i have decided to stick to love.hate is too great a burden to bear.
i have found it advisable not to give too much heed to what people say when i am trying to accomplish something of consequence. invariably they proclaim it can't be done.
i have found some of the best reasons i ever had for remaining at the bottom simply by looking at the men at the top.
i have found that among its other benefits, giving liberates the soul of the giver.
i have found the paradox, that if you love until it hurts, there can be no more hurt, only more love.
i have friends in overalls whose friendship i would not swap for the favor of the kings of the world.
i have great faith in fools self confidence my friends will call it.
i have hated words and i have loved them, and i hope i have made them right.
i have heard there are troubles of more than one kind. some come from ahead and some come from behind. but i've bought a big bat. i'm all ready you see. now my troubles are going to have troubles with me.
i have learnt that success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has overcome while trying to succeed.
i have loved the stars too fondly to be fearful of the night.
i have made the gravest of mistakes,in permitting the scrutinizing gaze of society to shape me. to the point where i am unaware of who i am, yet wholly aware of the shadow i have become. too afraid to be transparen't even with those closest.
i have never listened to anyone who criticized my taste in space travel, sideshows or gorillas. when this occurs, i pack up my dinosaurs and leave the room.
i have never taken any exercise except sleeping and resting.
i have no special talents. i am only passionately curious.
i have not failed, i have just found 10,000 ways that do not work.
i have not failed. i've just found 10,000 ways that won't work.
i have nothing new to teach the world. truth and non violence are as old as the hills. all i have done is to try experiments in both on as vast a scale as i could.
i have noticed that even people who claim everything is predetermined and that we can do nothing to change it, look before they cross the road.
i have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others.
i have the choice of being constantly active and happy or introspectively passive and sad. or i can go mad by ricocheting in between.
i have this strange feeling that i'm not myself anymore. it's hard to put into words, but i guess it's like i was fast asleep, and someone came, disassembled me, and hurriedly put me back together again. that sort of feeling.
i have to remind myself that some birds aren't meant to be caged. their feathers are just too bright. and when they fly away, the part of you that knows it was a sin to lock them up does rejoice. still, the place you live in is that much more drab and empty that they're gone. i guess i just miss my friend.
i heard what you said. i'm not the silly romantic you think. i don't want the heavens or the shooting stars. i don't want gemstones or gold. i have those things already. i want a steady hand. a kind soul. i want to fall asleep, and wake, knowing my heart is safe. i want to love, and be loved.
i honestly think it is better to be a failure at something you love than to be a success at something you hate.
i hope she'll be a fool that's the best thing a girl can be in this world, a beautiful little fool.
i hope that in this year to come, you make mistakes. because if you are making mistakes, you're doing something.
i just downvote everything.
i just think it's good to be confident. if i'm not on my team why should anybody else be.
i just want to put a ding in the universe.
i keep on dying, because i love to live.
i knew the second i met you that there was something about you i needed. turns out it wasn't something about you at all. it was just you.
i knew when i met you an adventure was going to happen.
i know for sure that love saves me and that it is here to save us all.
i know very little about anything, but i do know this, if you can live your life without an audience, you should do it.
i know we only live once. but that doesn't mean live fast and die young. there is more youth six feet under. than the elderly in nursing homes.
i learned this, at least, by my experiment, that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
i lie to myself all the time. but i never believe me.
i like it when a flower or a little tuft of grass grows through a crack in the sidewalk. it's so heroic.
i like living. i have sometimes been wildly, despairingly, acutely miserable, racked with sorrow, but through it all i still know quite certainly that just to be alive is a grand thing.
i like nonsense, it wakes up the brain cells. fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living, it's a way of looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope. which is what i do, and that enables you to laugh at life's realities.
i like nonsense, it wakes up the brain cells. fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living.
i listened to an almost forgotten sound within myself as if my heart, long stopped, were calmly beginning to beat again.
i long to accomplish a great and noble task, but it is my chief duty to accomplish small tasks as if they were great and noble.
i love being with people who make me forget i have a phone.
i love deadlines. i love the whooshing noise they make as they go by.
i love humanity but i hate humans.
i love mankind it's people i can't stand..
i love people who make me laugh. i honestly think it's the thing i like most, to laugh. it cures a multitude of ills. it's probably the most important thing in a person.
i love to see a young girl go out and grab the world by the lapels. life's a bitch. you've got to go out and kick ass.
i love you as certain dark things are to be loved,in secret, between the shadow and the soul.
i love you without knowing how, or when, or from where. i love you simply, without problems or pride, i love you in this way because i do not know any other way of loving but this, in which there is no i or you, so intimate that your hand upon my chest is my hand, so intimate that when i fall asleep your eyes close.
i love you. i am who i am because of you. you are every reason, every hope, and every dream i've ever had, and no matter what happens to us in the future, everyday we are together is the greatest day of my life. i will always be yours.
i love you. remember, they cannot take it.
i loved her against reason, against promise, against peace, against hope, against happiness, against all discouragement that could be.
i maintain that, if everyone knew what others said about him, there would not be four friends in the world.
i may die young, but at least i'll die smart.
i may not have gone where i intended to go, but i think i have ended up where i needed to be.
i mean, if the relationship can't survive the long term, why on earth would it be worth my time and energy for the short term.
i might be in love with you. he smiles a little. i'm waiting until i'm sure to tell you, though.
i must admit that i personally measure success in terms of the contributions an individual makes to her or his fellow human beings.
i must have a prodigious quantity of mind, it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up.
i must not fear. fear is the mind killer. fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. i will face my fear. i will permit it to pass over me and through me. and when it has gone past i will turn the inner eye to see its path. where the fear has gone there will be nothing. only i will remain.
i myself am made entirely of flaws, stitched together with good intentions.
i never change, i simply become more myself.
i never travel without my diary. one should always have something sensational to read on the train.
i no longer believed in the idea of soul mates, or love at first sight. but i was beginning to believe that a very few times in your life, if you were lucky, you might meet someone who was exactly right for you. not because he was perfect, or because you were, but because your combined flaws were arranged in a way that allowed two separate beings to hinge together.
i no longer have the energy for meaningless friendships, forced interactions or unnecessary conversations. if we don't vibrate on the same frequency theres just no reason for us to waste our time. id rather have no one and wait for substance than to not feel someone and fake the funk.
i no longer need to look upon myself because i have become the greatest.
i only have one piece of advice for you, when the time comes, step up to the plate, smack that ball out of the park, look em in the eye, and don't say anything.
i prefer dangerous freedom over peaceful slavery.
i read a book one day and my whole life was changed.
i read once that the ancient egyptians had fifty words for sand & the eskimos had a hundred words for snow. i wish i had a thousand words for love, but all that comes to mind is the way you move against me while you sleep & there are no words for that.
i read so i can live more than one life in more than one place.
i realize now that dying is easy. living is hard.
i really don't know what i love you means. i think it means don't leave me here alone.
i refuse to answer that question on the grounds that i don't know the answer.
i refuse to join any club that would have me as a member.
i regret that it takes a life to learn how to live.
i saw the angel in the marble and carved until i set him free.
i shall pass this way but once. any good therefore that i can do, or any kindness that i can show to any human being, let me do it now. let me not defer, nor neglect it, for i shall not pass this way again.
i shall pass through this world but once. any good therefore that i can do or any kindness that i can show to any human being, let me do it now. let me not defer or neglect it, for i shall not pass this way again.
i solemnly swear that i am up to no good.
i speak to everyone in the same way, whether he is the garbage man or the president of the university.
i spend so much time on the internet, i feel like i'm a million pages into the worst book ever, and i'm never going to stop reading.
i spent my life folded between the pages of books. in the absence of human relationships i formed bonds with paper characters. i lived love and loss through stories threaded in history, i experienced adolescence by association. my world is one interwoven web of words, stringing limb to limb, bone to sinew, thoughts and images all together. i am a being comprised of letters, a character created by sentences, a figment of imagination formed through fiction.
i still love the people ive loved, even if i cross the street to avoid them.
i stood still, vision blurring, and in that moment, i heard my heart break. it was a small, clean sound, like the snapping of a flower's stem.
i suppose i'll have to add the force of gravity to my list of enemies.
i suppose leadership at one time meant muscles, but today it means getting along with people.
i think a hero is any person really intent on making this a better place for all people.
i think a lot of people dream. and while they are busy dreaming, the really happy people, the really successful people, the really interesting, engaged, powerful people, are busy doing.
i think different religions are different doors to the same house. sometimes i think the house exists, and sometimes i don't. it's the great mystery.
i think if i've learned anything about friendship, it's to hang in, stay connected, fight for them, and let them fight for you. don't walk away, don't be distracted, don't be too busy or tired, don't take them for granted. friends are part of the glue that holds life and faith together. powerful stuff.
i think if we ban certain religions, if we censor the internet, i think that at that point the terrorists will have won.
i think it's brought the world a lot closer together, and will continue to do that. there are downsides to everything, there are unintended consequences to everything.
i think it's the most natural thing in the world to make fun of stuff. because things are really stupid.
i think no comment is a splendid expression. i am using it again and again.
i think people spend too much time staring into screens and not enough time drinking wine, tongue kissing, and dancing under the moon.
i think that if i ever have kids, and they are upset, i won't tell them that people are starving in china or anything like that because it wouldn't change the fact that they were upset. and even if somebody else has it much worse, that doesn't really change the fact that you have what you have.
i think the saddest people always try their hardest to make people happy because they know what its like to feel absolutely worthless and they don't want anyone else to feel like that.
i think we dream so we don't have to be apart for so long. if we're in each other's dreams, we can be together all the time.
i think, therefore i am.
i think. if it is true that there are as many minds as there are heads, then there are as many kinds of love as there are hearts.
i thoroughly disapprove of duels. if a man should challenge me, i would take him kindly and forgivingly by the hand and lead him to a quiet place and kill him.
i told you.
i urge you to please notice when you are happy, and exclaim or murmur or think at some point, if this isn't nice, i don't know what is.
i used to think the worst thing in life was to end up all alone. its not. the worst thing in life is to end up with people who make you feel all alone.
i want freedom for the full expression on my personality.
i want to die on mars, just not on impact.
i want to do with you what spring does with the cherry trees.
i want to put a ding in the universe.
i want to stand as close to the edge as i can without going over. out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can't see from the center.
i wanted a perfect ending. now i've learned, the hard way, that some poems don't rhyme, and some stories don't have a clear beginning, middle, and end. life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it, without knowing what's going to happen next.
i wanted the whole world or nothing.
i wanted to tell the book thief many things, about beauty and brutality. but what could i tell her about those things that she didn't already know. i wanted to explain that i am constantly overestimating and underestimating the human race that rarely do i ever simply estimate it. i wanted to ask her how the same thing could be so ugly and so glorious, and its words and stories so damning and brilliant.
i was adored once too.
i was angry with my friend i told my wrath, my wrath did end. i was angry with my foe, i told it not, my wrath did grow.
i was gratified to be able to answer promptly, and i did. i said i didn't know.
i was never really insane except upon occasions when my heart was touched.
i was smiling yesterday,i am smiling today and i will smile tomorrow. simply because life is too short to cry for anything.
i will always choose a lazy person to do a difficult job because he will find an easy way to do it.
i will always treasure the initial misconception i had of you.
i will destroy you in the most beautiful way possible. and when i leave you will finally understand, why storms are named after people.
i will not allow anyone to walk through my mind with their dirty feet.
i will not condemn you for what you did yesterday, if you do it right today.
i will not let anyone walk through my mind with their dirty feet.
i will not say, do not weep, for not all tears are an evil.
i wish i could freeze this moment, right here, right now and live in it forever.
i wish i were dumber so i could be more certain about my opinions. it looks fun.
i wish there was a way to know you're in the good old days before you've actually left them.
i woke up thinking a very pleasant thought. there is lots left in the world to read.
i wonder how many people i've looked at all my life and never seen.
i wonder how much of what weighs me down is not mine to carry.
i wonder who defined man as a rational animal. it was the most premature definition ever given.
i would always rather be happy than dignified.
i would challenge you to a battle of wits but i see you are unarmed.
i would die for my country but i could never let my country die for me.
i would die for you. but i won't live for you.
i would feel real trapped in this life if i didn't know i could commit suicide at any time.
i would like to be the air that inhabits you for a moment only. i would like to be that unnoticed and that necessary.
i would rather die of passion than of boredom.
i would rather walk with a friend in the dark, than alone in the light.
i would venture to guess that anon, who wrote so many poems without signing them, was often a woman.
i, with a deeper instinct, choose a man who compels my strength, who makes enormous demands on me, who does not doubt my courage or my toughness, who does not believe me naive, who has the courage to treat me like a woman.
i'd rather be someone's shot of whiskey than everyone's cup of tea.
i'd said it before and meant it, alive or undead, the love of my life was a badass.
i'll be more enthusiastic about encouraging thinking outside the box when there's evidence of any thinking going on inside it.
i'm a grenade and at some point i'm going to blow up and i would like to minimize the casualties, okay.
i'm a success today because i had a friend who believed in me and i didn't have the heart to let him down.
i'm bored is a useless thing to say. i mean, you live in a great, big, vast world that you've seen none percent of. even the inside of your own mind is endless, it goes on forever, inwardly, do you understand. the fact that you're alive is amazing, so you don't get to say'i'm bored. louis c.k.
i'm convinced that about half of what separates the successful entrepreneurs from the unsuccessful ones is pure perseverance. it is so hard.
i'm here. i love you. i don't care if you need to stay up crying all night long, i will stay with you. if you need the medication again, go ahead and take it i will love you through that, as well. if you don't need the medication, i will love you, too. there's nothing you can ever do to lose my love. i will protect you until you die, and after your death i will still protect you. i am stronger than depression and i am braver than loneliness and nothing will ever exhaust me.
i'm not a bad man. sometimes i have to think to myself what would a bad man do. the world needs bad men they keep the other bad men from the door.
i'm not a sore loser, it's just i prefer to win and when i don't i get furious.
i'm not afraid of death, i just don't want to be there when it happens.
i'm not in this world to live up to your expectations and you're not in this world to live up to mine.
i'm not saying that everything is survivable. just that everything except the last thing is.
i'm not upset that you lied to me, i'm upset that from now on i won't be able to believe you.
i'm only brave when i have to be. being brave doesn't mean you go looking for trouble.
i'm quite illiterate, but i read a lot.
i'm the one that's got to die when it's time for me to die, so let me live my life the way i want to.
i'm tough, i'm ambitious, and i know exactly what i want. if that makes me a bitch, okay.
i've always resented the fact that when a cop drives by i feel paranoid instead of protected.
i've been killing characters my entire career, maybe i'm just a bloody minded bastard, i don't know, [but] when my characters are in danger, i want you to be afraid to turn the page (and to do that) you need to show right from the beginning that you're playing for keeps.
i've carried this character around like an old suitcase, down a long, dusty path. i'm not carrying it because i like it. the contents are too heavy, and it looks crummy, fraying in spots. i've carried it with me because there was nothing else i was supposed to carry.
i've failed over and over and over again in my life and that is why i succeed.
i've got nothing to do today but smile.
i've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.
i've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both hands, you need to be able to throw something back.
i've met some pricks in my time.
i've missed more than 9000 shots in my career. ive lost almost 300 games. 26 times, ive been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. ive failed over and over and over again in my life. and that is why i succeed.
i've never fooled anyone. i've let people fool themselves. they didn't bother to find out who and what i was. instead they would invent a character for me. i wouldn't argue with them. they were obviously loving somebody i wasn't.
i've seen the future, and it's much like the present only longer.
identify your problems but give your power and energy to solutions.
if a book about failures doesn't sell, is it a success.
if a cluttered desk is a sign of a cluttered mind, of what, then, is an empty desk a sign.
if a cluttered desk is the sign of a cluttered mind, what is the significance of a clean desk.
if a man has his eyes bound, you can encourage him as much as you like to stare through the bandage, but he'll never see anything.
if a man needs religion to conduct himself properly in this world, it is a sign that he has either a limited mind or a corrupt heart.
if a million people say a foolish thing, it is still a foolish thing.
if all else perished, and he remained, i should still continue to be, and if all else remained, and he were annihilated, the universe would turn to a mighty stranger.
if at first you don't succeed, try, try again. then quit. no use being a damn fool about it.
if cats looked like frogs we'd realize what nasty, cruel little bastards they are. style. that's what people remember.
if ever there is tomorrow when we're not together. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart. i'll always be with you.
if everyone is thinking alike, someone isn't thinking.
if everywhere you go it smells bad, maybe it's time to check your own shoes.
if i am wrong, educate me, don't belittle me.
if i am, death is not. if death is, i am not. why fear that which cannot exist when i do.
if i can stop one heart from breaking, i shall not live in vain.
if i could be anything, i'd be a bird with wooden wings. i wouldn't fly but i wouldn't break.
if i died tomorrow, i couldn't complain. it's been good.
if i had a flower for every time i thought of you, i could walk through my garden forever.
if i had a nickel for every woman who finds me unattractive, they would eventually find me attractive.
if i had six hours to chop down a tree, id spend the first four sharpening the axe.
if i knew then what i know now, well, it probably wouldn't have changed very much. and it probably wouldn't have changed very much because sometimes, it doesn't matter what you know. what you feel. just takes over.
if i quit now, i will soon be back to where i started. and when i started i was desperately wishing to be where i am now.
if i tell you i'm good, you probably will say i'm boasting. but if i tell you i'm not good, you'll know i'm lying.
if i were not a physicist, i would probably be a musician. i often think in music. i live my daydreams in music. i see my life in terms of music.
if i were not an emperor, i would want to be a teacher. i know no greater and nobler mission than to direct the young minds and prepare the men of the future.
if i'd observed all the rules i'd never have got anywhere.
if i'm sad i want my body to feel sad. and that's what vodka does.
if internet explorer is brave enough to ask to be your default browser, you're brave enough to ask that girl out.
if it can be destroyed by the truth it deserves to be destroyed by the truth.
if it can be destroyed by the truth, it deserves to be destroyed by the truth.
if it can be swung like a hammer, it can be used as a hammer.
if it scares you it might be a good thing to try.
if it were easy, everyone would do it.
if it weren't for second chances, wed all be alone.
if it's meant to be, it will be.
if justice is being taken away, then, what are kingdoms but great robberies.
if love blinds you from seeing the faults of the one you love, then hatred blinds you from seeing the good things in the one you hate.
if men would consider not so much wherein they differ, as wherein they agree, there would be far less of uncharitableness and angry feeling in the world.
if more of us valued food and cheer and song above hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world.
if most of us are ashamed of shabby clothes and shoddy furniture, let us be more ashamed of shabby ideas and shoddy philosophies.
if music be the food of love, play on, give me excess of it, that surfeiting, the appetite may sicken, and so die.
if my life is going to mean anything, i have to live it myself.
if no one in the entire world cared about you, did you really exist at all.
if not us, then who. if not now, then when.
if one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all.
if one is only to talk from first hand experience, conversation would be a very poor business.
if pain must come, may it come quickly. because i have a life to live, and i need to live it in the best way possible. if he has to make a choice, may he make it now. then i will either wait for him or forget him.
if parents learn to love their kids more than their ideologies, the world would be a better place.
if people are good only because they fear punishment, and hope for reward, then we are a sorry lot indeed.
if people looked at the stars each night, they'd live a lot differently. when you look into infinity, you realize that there are more important things than what people do all day.
if plan doesn't work. change the plan, not the goal.
if she's amazing, she won't be easy. if she's easy, she won't be amazing. if she's worth it, you won't give up. if you give up, you're not worthy. truth is, everybody is going to hurt you, you just gotta find the ones worth suffering for.
if someone shows you who they really are, believe them.
if tetris has taught me anything it's that errors pile up and accomplishments disappear.
if the earth ends in fire, and the seas are frozen in time, there be just one survivor, the memory that i was yours and you were mine.
if the girl had been worth having shed have waited for you. no, sir, the girl really worth having wont wait for anybody.
if the path before you is clear, you're probably on someone else's.
if the primary aim of a captain were to preserve his ship, he would keep it in port forever.
if the world were merely seductive, that would be easy. if it were merely challenging, that would be no problem. but i arise in the morning torn between a desire to improve the world and a desire to enjoy the world. this makes it hard to plan the day.
if there are no stupid questions, then what kind of questions do stupid people ask. do they get smart just in time to ask questions.
if there is any principle of the constitution that more imperatively calls for attachment than any other it is the principle of free thought, not free thought for those who agree with us but freedom for the thought that we hate.
if there is anybody in this land who thoroughly believes that the meek shall inherit the earth they have not often let their presence be known.
if there is anything the nonconformist hates worse than a conformist, its another nonconformist who doesn't conform to the prevailing standard of nonconformity.
if there is no struggle, there is no progress. those who profess to favor freedom, and yet depreciate agitation, are men who want crops without plowing up the ground. they want rain without thunder and lightning. they want the ocean without the awful roar of its many waters.
if they don't know you personally, don't take it personal.
if things start happening, don't worry, don't stew, just go right along and you'll start happening too.
if through one man's life there is a little more love and kindness, a little more light and truth in the world, then he will not have lived in vain.
if tomorrow, women woke up and decided they really liked their bodies, just think how many industries would go out of business.
if voting made any difference they wouldn't let us do it.
if we are grateful for what we have, then we are in a peaceful state of mind and invulnerable to pain.
if we can realize that life is always happening for us, not to us game over, all the pain and suffering disappears.
if we desire respect for the law, we must first make the law respectable.
if we find ourselves with a desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that we were made for another world.
if we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it.
if we knew what we were doing, it wouldn't be called research, would it.
if we wait for the moment when everything, absolutely everything is ready, we shall never begin.
if we wait until we're ready, we'll be waiting our whole lives.
if you always give, you will always have.
if you always put limit on everything you do, physical or anything else. it will spread into your work and into your life. there are no limits. there are only plateaus, and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them.
if you always tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything.
if you are a minority of one then the truth is the truth.
if you are allergic to a thing, it is best not to put that thing in your mouth, particularly if the thing is cats.
if you are always trying to be normal, you will never know how amazing you can be.
if you are born poor, it's not your fault. but if you die poor, it's your fault.
if you are content with your life and what you have, you are wrong.
if you are depressed you are living in the past. if you are anxious you are living in the future. if you are at peace you are living in the present.
if you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it, and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.
if you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.
if you are going through difficulties, keep going.
if you are going to win any battle, you have to do one thing. you have to make the mind run the body. never let the body tell the mind what to do, the body is never tired if the mind is not tired.
if you are irritated by every rub, how will your mirror be polished.
if you are lonely when you're alone, you are in bad company.
if you are not too long, i will wait here for you all my life.
if you are the smartest person in the room, then you are in the wrong room.
if you are willing at look at another persons behavior toward you as a reflection of the state of their relationship with themselves rather than a statement about your value as a person, then you will, over a period of time cease to react at all.
if you ask me what i came to do in this world, i, an artist, will answer you, i am here to live out loud.
if you assume that there is no hope, you guarantee that there will be no hope. if you assume that there is an instinct for freedom, that there are opportunities to change things, then there is a possibility that you can contribute to making a better world.
if you believe in yourself and have dedication and pride and never quit, you'll be a winner. the price of victory is high but so are the rewards.
if you can dream it, you can do it.
if you can express it with words, it's not true.
if you can make a woman laugh, you can make her do anything.
if you can't describe what you are doing as a process, you don't know what you're doing.
if you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough.
if you can't explain it to a six year old, you don't understand it yourself.
if you can't feed a hundred people, feed just one.
if you can't fly then run, if you can't run then walk, if you can't walk then crawl, but whatever you do you have to keep moving forward.
if you can't make it good, at least make it look good.
if you can't sleep, then get up and do something instead of lying there worrying. it's the worry that gets you, not the lack of sleep.
if you can't understand it without an explanation, you can't understand it with an explanation.
if you cant get away from it. embrace it.
if you change nothing, nothing will change.
if you could kick the person in the pants responsible for most of your trouble, you wouldn't sit for a month.
if you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading.
if you do something and it turns out pretty good, then you should go do something else wonderful, not dwell on it for too long. just figure out what's next.
if you do what you've always done, you'll get what you've always gotten.
if you don't have time to read, you don't have the time or the tools to write. simple as that.
if you don't imagine, nothing ever happens at all.
if you don't know what you're doing, do it neatly.
if you don't know where you're going, any road'll take you there.
if you don't know, the thing to do is not to get scared, but to learn.
if you don't like someone's story, write your own.
if you don't like something, change it. if you can't change it, change your attitude. nothing will work unless you do.
if you don't like where you are, change it. you're not a tree.
if you don't read the newspaper, you're uninformed. if you read the newspaper, you're misinformed.
if you don't risk anything, you risk even more.
if you don't stand for something you will fall for anything.
if you don't value your life start smoking, you'll die ten years early. or, start drinking to excess every day, you'll die fifteen years early. or you could love someone who doesn't love you back, you'll die every day.
if you end up with a boring, miserable life because you listened to your mom, your dad, your teacher, your priest, or some guy on television telling you what to do, you deserve it.
if you endeavor to achieve, it will happen given enough resolve. it may not be immediate, and often your greater dreams is something you will not achieve within your own lifetime. the effort you put forth to anything transcends yourself, for there is no futility even in death.
if you expect nothing from somebody you are never disappointed.
if you feel like you're in last place, get out and start your own game.
if you gave someone your heart and they died, did they take it with them. did you spend the rest of forever with a hole inside you that couldn't be filled.
if you give me six lines written by the hand of the most honest of men, i will find something in them which will hang him.
if you go flying back through time, and you see somebody else flying forward into the future, it's probably best to avoid eye contact.
if you had to define stress, it would not be far off if you said it was the process of living. the process of living is the process of having stress imposed on you and reacting to it.
if you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need.
if you have an important point to make, don't try to be subtle or clever. use a pile driver. hit the point once. then come back and hit it again. then hit it a third time a tremendous whack.
if you have any young friends who aspire to become writers the second greatest favor you can do them is to present them with copies of the elements of style. the first greatest, of course, is to shoot them now, while they're happy.
if you have someone you think is the one, take them and travel around the world. buy a plane ticket for the two of you to travel all over the world, to places that are hard to reach and hard to get out of. and when you land at jfk and you're still in love with that person, get married.
if you have the opportunity to play this game of life you need to appreciate every moment. a lot of people don't appreciate the moment until it's passed.
if you have the option to add cheese on something, do it.
if you have to ask the price, you can't afford it.
if you have to convince someone to stay with you, then they have already left.
if you have two friends in your lifetime, you're lucky. if you have one good friend, you're more than lucky.
if you hold a cat by the tail you learn things you cannot learn any other way.
if you judge people, you have no time to love them.
if you like her, if she makes you happy, and if you feel like you know her then don't let her go.
if you live each day as if it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right.
if you live to be 100, i hope i live to 100 minus 1 day, so i never have to live without you.
if you live to be a hundred, i want to live to be a hundred minus one day so i never have to live without you.
if you look for perfection, you'll never be content.
if you look for the light, you can always find it. but if you look for the dark, that is all you will ever see.
if you love a flower, don't pick it up. because if you pick it up it dies and it ceases to be what you love. so if you love a flower, let it be. love is not about possession. love is about appreciation.
if you love deeply, you're going to get hurt badly. but its still worth it.
if you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.
if you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. if they don't, they never were.
if you love someone, everything is negotiable. if you don't, everything is a door.
if you make an effort and don't receive any in return, then stop making an effort.
if you never did, you should. these things are fun and fun is good.
if you obey all of the rules, you miss all of the fun.
if you only read the books that everyone else is reading, you can only think what everyone else is thinking.
if you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous he will not bite you. this is the principal difference between a dog and man.
if you put a person up on a pedestal they will have no choice but to look down upon you.
if you really want to do something, you'll find a way. if you don't, you'll find an excuse.
if you remember me, then i don't care if everyone else forgets.
if you see a friend without a smile. give him one of yours.
if you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you'll never get it done.
if you spend your life to be good at everything. you will never be great at anything.
if you stand and stare out of the window on your own, you're an antisocial, friendless idiot. if you stand and stare out of the window on your own with a cigarette, you're a philosopher.
if you take care of the minutes, the years will take care of themselves.
if you think back and replay your year, if it doesn't bring you tears either of joy or sadness, consider it wasted.
if you think dogs can't count, try putting three dog biscuits in your pocket and then give him only two of them.
if you think you are too small to make a difference, try to sleep with a mosquito in a room.
if you think your teacher is tough, wait till you get a boss.
if you truly love life, don't waste time, because time is what life is made of.
if you want everything in life it probably means you want nothing.
if you want happiness for an hour  take a nap. if you want happiness for a day  go fishing. if you want happiness for a month  get married. if you want happiness for a year  inherit a fortune. if you want happiness for a lifetime  help someone else.
if you want more ice cream, use a smaller spoon.
if you want real peace in the world, start with children.
if you want something you've never had, you must be willing to do something you've never done.
if you want to be a writer, you must do two things above all others, read a lot and write a lot.
if you want to forget something or someone, never hate it, or never hate him/her. everything and everyone that you hate is engraved upon your heart, if you want to let go of something, if you want to forget, you cannot hate.
if you want to get laid, go to college. if you want an education, go to the library.
if you want to keep your sanity, never let yourself become overwhelmed by things you can't control.
if you want to kill yourself, kill what you don't like. i had an old self that i killed. you can kill yourself too, but that doesn't mean you got to stop living.
if you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or objects.
if you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.
if you want to make a permanent change, stop focusing on the size of your problems and start focusing on the size of you.
if you want to make enemies, try to change something.
if you want to see what a society really believes in, look at what the biggest buildings on the horizon are dedicated to.
if you want to succeed you should strike out on new paths, rather than travel the worn paths of accepted success.
if you want to take the island, burn your boats and you will take the island, people who are willing to die to succeed, tend to succeed. most of us give ourselves outs, that's why we don't have what we want.
if you want to tell people the truth, make them laugh, otherwise they'll kill you.
if you want to test a man's character give him power.
if you want total security, go to prison. there you're fed, clothed, given medical care and so on. the only thing lacking, is freedom.
if you want total security, go to prison. there you're fed, clothed, given medical care and so on. the only thing lacking. is freedom.
if you want your children to be intelligent, read them fairy tales. if you want them to be more intelligent, read them more fairy tales.
if you were half as funny as you think you are, you'd be twice as funny as you really are.
if you worry about yesterdays failures, then todays successes will be few.
if you're gonna be two faced at least make one of them pretty.
if you're gonna dance with the devil you might as well lead.
if you're in trouble, or hurt or need go to the poor people. they're the only ones that'll help the only ones.
if you're losing your soul and you know it, then you've still got a soul left to lose.
if you're not careful, the newspapers will have you hating the people who are being oppressed, and loving the people who are doing the oppressing.
if you're not humble, life will visit humbleness upon you.
if you're offered a seat on a rocket ship, don't ask what seat. just get on.
if you're reading this. congratulations, you're alive. if that's not something to smile about, then i don't know what is.
if you're sad today, just remember the world is over 4 billion years old and you somehow managed to exist at the same time as david bowie.
if you're still sighing for missed last nights moon, so you'll also loss todays sunrise. live in the moment.
if you're the most intelligent person in the room, you're in the wrong room.
if you're the smartest one in the room, you're in the wrong room.
if you're tired of arguing with strangers on the internet, try talking to one in real life.
if you've told a child a thousand times and he still does not understand, then it is not the child who is the slow learner.
if your dream doesn't scare you, your dream isn't big enough.
if your regime is not strong enough to handle a joke, then you don't have a regime.
ignoring your passion is slow suicide. never ignore what your heart pumps for. mold your career around your lifestyle not your lifestyle around your career.
imagination is more important than knowledge.
imagination will often carry us to worlds that never were. but without it, we go nowhere.
imagine smiling after a slap in the face. then think of doing it twenty four hours a day.
imagining the future is a kind of nostalgia. you spend your whole life stuck in the labyrinth, thinking about how you'll escape it one day, and how awesome it will be, and imagining that future keeps you going, but you never do it. you just use the future to escape the present.
imperfection is beauty, madness is genius and it's better to be absolutely ridiculous than absolutely boring.
in a country well governed, poverty is something to be ashamed of. in a country badly governed, wealth is something to be ashamed of.
in a dozen famous ancient states now prostrate under the nazi yoke, the masses of the people of all classes and creeds await the hour of liberation. that hour will strike, and its solemn peal will proclaim that the night is past and that the dawn has come.
in a gentle way, you can shake the world.
in a good bookroom you feel in some mysterious way that you are absorbing the wisdom contained in all the books through your skin, without even opening them.
in a relationship, you need somebody whos going to call you out, not somebody whos going to let everything slide. you need somebody who doesn't want to live without you, but can. not somebody that is dependent, but somebody who is stronger with you. a relationship is two people, not one.
in a society that profits from your self doubt, liking yourself is a rebellious act.
in a time of deceit telling the truth is a revolutionary act.
in a world full of broken people i find it amazing that instead of working together to try and make each one of us whole we try to break each other further.
in any fairly large and talkative community such as a university there is always the danger that those who think alike should gravitate together where they will henceforth encounter opposition only in the emasculated form of rumor that the outsiders say thus and thus. the absent are easily refuted, complacent dogmatism thrives, and differences of opinion are embittered by the group hostility. each group hears not the best, but the worst, that the other group can say.
in any free society, the conflict between social conformity and individual liberty is permanent, unresolvable, and necessary.
in any given moment we have two options, to step forward into growth or to step back into safety.
in crises the most daring course is often safest.
in doing something, do it with love or never do it at all.
in doubt a man of worth will trust to his own wisdom.
in eternity there is no time, only an instant long enough for a joke.
in general politics needs to focus on the problems rather than attacking the other side.
in life we all have an unspeakable secret, an irreversible regret, an unreachable dream and an unforgettable love.
in matters of self control as we shall see again and again, speed kills. but a little friction really can save lives.
in my mind i am eloquent, i can climb intricate scaffolds of words to reach the highest cathedral ceilings and paint my thoughts. but when i open my mouth, everything collapses.
in our lives, on average, we will be asleep for a total of 8,477 days. if we're lucky, some of that time will be sleeping next to someone we love.
in peace, sons bury their fathers. in war, fathers bury their sons.
in politics, if you want anything said, ask a man. if you want anything done, ask a woman.
in real life, however, you don't react to what someone did, you react only to what you think she did, and the gap between action and perception is bridged by the art of impression management. if life itself is but what you deem it, then why not focus your efforts on persuading others to believe that you are a virtuous and trustworthy cooperator.
in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move.
in the case of good books, the point is not to see how many of them you can get through, but rather how many can get through to you.
in the depth of winter, i finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.
in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.
in the long run, you only hit what you aim at.
in the small matters trust the mind, in the large ones the heart.
in the vain laughter of folly, wisdom hears half its applause.
in vain have i struggled. it will not do. my feelings will not be repressed. you must allow me to tell you how ardently i admire and love you.
in wisdom gathered over time i have found that every experience is a form of exploration.
inaction breeds doubt and fear. action breeds confidence and courage. if you want to conquer fear, do not sit home and think about it. go out and get busy.
indifference and neglect often do much more damage than outright dislike.
individual commitment to a group effort that is what makes a team work a company work, a society work, a civilization work.
individual expression and niche marketing is the natural way of the world.
individually, we are one drop. together, we are an ocean.
industries are only valuable to the degree they meet human needs. there's not some at least in my psyche this notion of, oh, we need new industries. we need children not to die, we need people to have an opportunity to get a good education.
infuse your life with action. don't wait for it to happen. make it happen. make your own future. make your own hope.
innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower.
inside every cynical person, there is a disappointed idealist.
inspiration exists, but it has to find you working.
inspiration is a guest that does not willingly visit the lazy.
instead of worrying about what people say of you, why not spend time trying to accomplish something they will admire.
iron rusts from disuse, stagnant water loses its purity and in cold weather becomes frozen, even so does inaction sap the vigor of the mind.
is better to be fun and funny, than to be angry and grumpy.
is everybody decaying and death marching ever closer. are the sands of time so cruel they should be arrested and sent to a cardiac beach. get cgi perspective and get with it.
is fat really the worst thing a human being can be. is fat worse than vindictive', jealous', shallow', vain', boring or cruel'. not to me.
isn't it funny how day by day nothing changes, but when you look back, everything is different.
isn't it nice to think that tomorrow is a new day with no mistakes in it yet.
isn't it odd how much fatter a book gets when you've read it several times. mo had said.as if something were left between the pages every time you read it. feelings, thoughts, sounds, smells.and then, when you look at the book again many years later, you find yourself there, too, a slightly younger self, slightly different, as if the book had preserved you like a pressed flower.both strange and familiar.
it all comes down to simple mathematics. a really beautiful relationship is a once in a lifetime thing. and i've already had mine.
it all comes down to this, the simplest way to be happy is to do good.
it always shocked me when i realized that i wasn't the only person in the world who thought and felt such strange and awful things.
it amazes me how 26 letters can be comprised into hundreds of words and arranged into thousands of sentences that speak to our souls in millions of ways.
it does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live.
it doesn't make sense to hire smart people and then tell them what to do, we hire smart people so they can tell us what to do.
it doesn't matter what other people think of you. what really matters is what you think of yourself.
it doesn't matter whether we made the right choice. what matters is what happens.
it gets easier. every day, it gets a little easier. but you gotta do it every day. that's the hard part. but it does get easier.
it has always been a mystery to me how men can feel themselves honored by the humiliation of their fellow beings.
it has been said, time heals all wounds. i do not agree. the wounds remain. in time, the mind, protecting its sanity, covers them with scar tissue and the pain lessens. but it is never gone.
it hurts to let go. sometimes it seems the harder you try to hold on to something or someone the more it wants to get away. you feel like some kind of criminal for having felt, for having wanted. for having wanted to be wanted. it confuses you, because you think that your feelings were wrong and it makes you feel so small because it's so hard to keep it inside when you let it out and it doesn't coma back. you're left so alone that you can't explain. damn, there's nothing like that, is there. i've been there and you have too. you're nodding your head.
it hurts when you go through something that kills you inside but you have to act like it doesn't affect you at all.
it is a curious thing, the death of a loved one. we all know that our time in this world is limited, and that eventually all of us will end up underneath some sheet, never to wake up. and yet it is always a surprise when it happens to someone we know. it is like walking up the stairs to your bedroom in the dark, and thinking there is one more stair than there is. your foot falls down, through the air, and there is a sickly moment of dark surprise as you try and readjust the way you thought of things.
it is a curious thought, but it is only when you see people looking ridiculous that you realize just how much you love them.
it is a funny thing about life, if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.
it is a great thing to start life with a small number of really good books which are your very own.
it is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
it is absurd to divide people into good and bad. people are either charming or tedious.
it is amazing how complete is the delusion that beauty is goodness.
it is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.
it is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.
it is better to deserve honors and not have them than to have them and not deserve them.
it is better to fail in originality than to succeed in imitation.
it is better to keep your mouth closed and let people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt.
it is better to light one small candle than to curse the darkness.
it is better to remain silent at the risk of being thought a fool, than to talk and remove all doubt of it.
it is better to sleep on things beforehand than lie awake about them afterward.
it is by going down into the abyss that we recover the treasures of life. where you stumble, there lies your treasure.
it is dangerous to be right in matters on which the established authorities are wrong.
it is dangerous to be right when the government is wrong.
it is difficult to be sat on all day, every day, by some other creature, without forming an opinion on them. on the other hand, it is perfectly possible to sit all day, every day, on top of another creature and not have the slightest thought about them whatsoever.
it is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends upon his not understanding it.
it is during our darkest moments that we must focus to see the light.
it is easier to build strong children than to repair broken men.
it is easier to forgive an enemy than to forgive a friend.
it is forbidden to kill, therefore all murderers are punished unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets.
it is good to love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is well done.
it is hard enough to remember my opinions, without also remembering my reasons for them.
it is hard to interest those who have everything in those who have nothing.
it is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all in which case, you fail by default.
it is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all, in which case you have failed by default.
it is just like mans vanity and impertinence to call an animal dumb because it is dumb to his dull perceptions.
it is more fun to talk with someone who doesn't use long, difficult words but rather short, easy words like what about lunch.
it is much more easy to have sympathy with suffering, than it is to have sympathy with thought.
it is my belief. that the truth is generally preferable to lies.
it is never too late to be what you might have been.
it is never your fault for being who you are and doing what you do, but always your fault for not being able to deal with the consequence of your actions.
it is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.
it is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.
it is not enough to do your best, you must know what to do, and then do your best.
it is not in the stars to hold our destiny but in ourselves.
it is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. the credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming, but who does actually strive to do the deeds, who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.
it is not the going out of port, but the coming in, that determines the success of a voyage.
it is not the mountains ahead to climb that wear you out, it is the pebble in your shoe.
it is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change.
it is not work that kills men, it is worry. work is healthy, you can hardly put more upon a man than he can bear. worry is the rust upon the blade. it is not the movement that destroys the machinery but the friction.
it is often in the darkest skies that we see the brightest stars.
it is often said that before you die your life passes before your eyes. it is in fact true. it's called living.
it is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.
it is only by doing things others have not that one can advance.
it is only the modern that ever becomes old fashioned.
it is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. that is not a weakness, that is life.
it is said that your life flashes before your eyes just before you die. that is true, it's called life.
it is so simple to be happy but it is difficult to be simple.
it is sometimes an appropriate response to reality to go insane.
it is the cause, not the death, that makes the martyr.
it is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.
it is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge.
it is the unknown we fear when we look upon death and darkness, nothing more.
it is what you read when you don't have to that determines what you will be when you can't help it.
it is your mind that creates this world.
it isn't enough to talk about peace. one must believe in it. and it isn't enough to believe in it. one must work at it.
it isn't possible to love and part. you will wish that it was. you can transmute love, ignore it, muddle it, but you can never pull it out of you. i know by experience that the poets are right, love is eternal.
it isn't what you have or who you are or where you are or what you are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. it is what you think about it.
it isn't what you have, or who you are, or where you are, or what you are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. it is what you think about.
it just makes me so sad when i see someone light up and start talking about their passion, but then they stop talking and apologize.
it kills me sometimes, how people die.
it matters not what someone is born, but what they grow to be.
it may be unfair, but what happens in a few days, sometimes even a single day, can change the course of a whole lifetime.
it must be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success nor more dangerous to manage than the creation of a new system. for the initiator has the enmity of all who profit by the preservation of the old institution and merely lukewarm defenders in those who would gain by the new one.
it never ceases to amaze me, we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinion than our own.
it only takes 20 years for a liberal to become a conservative without changing a single idea.
it requires wisdom to understand wisdom, the music is nothing if the audience is deaf.
it sounds funny, but i mean it when i say that i am excited about chickens.
it takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends.
it takes great deal of courage to see the world in all its tainted glory, and still to love it.
it takes ten times as long to put yourself back together as it does to fall apart.
it usually takes more than three weeks to prepare a good impromptu speech.
it was books that made me feel that perhaps i was not completely alone. they could be honest with me, and i with them.
it was books that taught me that the things that tormented me most were the very things that connected me with all the people who were alive, or who had ever been alive.
it was love at first sight, at last sight, at ever and ever sight.
it was not the feeling of completeness i so needed, but the feeling of not being empty.
it was when i was happiest that i longed most. the sweetest thing in all my life has been the longing to find the place where all the beauty came from.
it would be a nice thing if humanity could survive.
it's a dangerous business, frodo, going out your door. you step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.
it's a lot easier to be lost than found. it's the reason we're always searching and rarely discovered so many locks not enough keys.
it's a strange world we live in when the porn industry has a record of everyone they've ever shot and yet the police don't.
it's all fun and games until someone loses an eye, then it's just fun you can't see.
it's all in the view. that's what i mean about forever, too. for any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. you never know for sure, so you'd better make every second count.
it's all right to love someone who doesn't love you back, as long as they're worth you loving them. as long as they deserve it.
it's discouraging to think how many people are shocked by honesty and how few by deceit.
it's enough for me to be sure that you and i exist at this moment.
it's far better to be unhappy alone than unhappy with someone so far.
it's fine to celebrate success but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure.
it's fun to do nothing special with you. and that's good.
it's good to be hated, it's good to know there are people out there who would dance on my grave, but since i'm gonna be buried at sea, they'll all drown.
it's important to remember at the end of the day, every living creature produces its own form of shit.
it's just that i don't want to be somebody's crush. if somebody likes me, i want them to like the real me, not what they think i am. and i don't want them to carry it around inside. i want them to show me, so i can feel it too.
it's just that. i just think that some things are meant to be broken. imperfect. chaotic. it's the universe's way of providing contrast, you know. there have to be a few holes in the road. it's how life is.
it's kind of fun to do the impossible.
it's like everyone tells a story about themselves inside their own head. always. all the time. that story makes you what you are. we build ourselves out of that story.
it's much easier to become interested in others than it is to convince them to be interested in you.
it's never their fault. they don't know any better.
it's no use going back to yesterday, because i was a different person then.
it's not a defeat that destroys you. being demoralized by defeat is that destroys you.
it's not about what it is, it's about what it can become.
it's not denial. i'm just selective about the reality i accept.
it's not resources but resourcefulness that ultimately makes the difference.
it's not that i'm so smart, it's just that i stay with problems longer.
it's not the daily increase but daily decrease. hack away at the unessential.
it's not the face, but the expressions on it. it's not the voice, but what you say. it's not how you look in that body, but the thing you do with it. you are beautiful.
it's not the length of life that matters, it's the depth.
it's not the load that breaks you down, it's the way you carry it.
it's not the strongest of species that survives, nor the most intelligent. it is the one that is most adaptable to change.
it's not the thought of turning 50 that depresses me, it's the thought of fifty more.
it's not true that i had nothing on. i had the radio on.
it's not true that life is one damn thing after another, it is one damn thing over and over.
it's not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters.
it's not what you can say, it's what you can prove.
it's not your life, it's life. life is bigger than you. life isn't something you possess, it's something you take part in and you witness.
it's now very common to hear people say, i'm rather offended by that.
it's often just enough to be with someone. i don't need to touch them. not even talk. a feeling passes between you both. you're not alone.
it's ok to stop doing things that should make you feel good, but dont.
it's only after we've lost everything that we're free to do anything.
it's possible to go on, no matter how impossible it seems, and that in time, the grief lessens. it may not go away completely, but after a while it's not so overwhelming.
it's really a wonder that i haven't dropped all my ideals, because they seem so absurd and impossible to carry out. yet i keep them, because in spite of everything, i still believe that people are really good at heart.
it's so cruel to let people love you. all you're doing is promising to one day break their hearts.
it's so hard to forget pain, but it's even harder to remember sweetness. we have no scar to show for happiness. we learn so little from peace.
it's so much darker when a light goes out than it would have been if it had never shone.
it's so strange that autumn is so beautiful yet everything is dying.
it's strange because sometimes, i read a book, and i think i am the people in the book.
it's the friends you can call up at 4 a.m. that matter.
it's the possibility of having a dream come true that makes life interesting.
its been my experience that you can nearly always enjoy things if you make up your mind firmly that you will.
joy and fun are quite compatible with spirituality and scholarship.
judge a man by his questions rather than by his answers.
jurassic park will forever be my favorite movie because it illustrates perfectly how, when you try to control everything, you will get eaten by a dinosaur.
just because you have the emotional range of a teaspoon doesn't mean we all have.
just like moons and like suns, with the certainty of tides, just like hopes springing high, still i'll rise.
just when i discovered the meaning of life, they changed it.
keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.
keep friends who inspire you.
keep hope alive.
keep in mind that people change, but the past doesn't.
keep it real.
keep looking. don't settle. as with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it.
keep smiling, because life is a beautiful thing and there's so much to smile about.
keep your fears to yourself, but share your inspiration with others.
keep your goals in front of you and your fears behind you.
keep your head up in failure, and your head down in success.
kindness in words creates confidence kindness in thinking creates profoundness kindness in giving creates love.
kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.
kindness isn't kindness if you expect a reward.
kiss me, and you will see how important i am.
knowing how to be solitary is central to the art of loving. when we can be alone, we can be with others without using them as a means of escape.
knowing is not enough, we must apply. willing is not enough, we must do.
knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.
knowledge alone is flat and lifeless, it becomes meaningful through the accumulation of experience over time.
knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers.
knowledge is knowing that a tomato is a fruit. wisdom is knowing that a tomato doesn't belong in a fruit salad.
knowledge is not wisdom, unless used wisely.
knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens.
knowledge will give you power, but character respect.
lady, when you lose your power to laugh, you lose your power to think.
laters, baby.
laugh at yourself, but don't ever aim your doubt at yourself. be bold. when you embark for strange places, don't leave any of yourself safely on shore. have the nerve to go into unexplored territory.
laughter is like a windshield wiper, it doesn't stop the rain but allows us to keep going.
laughter is timeless. imagination has no age. and dreams are forever.
laziness is an art, my friend. but right now, i don't want to waste energy to explain it to you.
laziness is the wealth of the poor.
learn what is to be taken seriously and laugh at the rest.
learning without thought is labor lost.
lesser artists borrow, great artists steal.
let an opponent graze your skin and you smash into his flesh, let an opponent smash into your flesh and you fracture his bone, let an opponent fracture your bone and you take his life, do not be concerned with your escaping safely, lay your life before him.
let go of attachment and pursue happiness.
let go of how you perceive others and how others perceive you.
let go or be dragged.
let me fall if i must, the one i'll become will catch me.
let me never fall into the vulgar mistake of dreaming that i am persecuted whenever i am contradicted.
let me tell you i am better acquainted with you for a long absence, as men are with themselves for a long affliction, absence does but hold off a friend, to make one see him the truer.
let me tell you this, if you meet a loner, no matter what they tell you, it's not because they enjoy solitude. it's because they have tried to blend into the world before, and people continue to disappoint them.
let no man pull you so low as to hate him.
let there be spaces in your togetherness, and let the winds of the heavens dance between you. love one another but make not a bond of love, let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf. sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music. give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping. for only the hand of life can contain your hearts. and stand together, yet not too near together, for the pillars of the temple stand apart, and the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow.
let us be grateful to the people who make us happy, they are the charming gardeners who make our souls blossom.
let us be thankful for the fools. but for them the rest of us could not succeed.
let us never know what old age is. let us know the happiness time brings, not count the years.
let us read, and let us dance, these two amusements will never do any harm to the world.
let us step into the night and pursue that flighty temptress, adventure.
let's go invent tomorrow rather than worrying about what happened yesterday.
let's make a dent in the universe.
letting go doesn't mean that you don't care about someone anymore. it's just realizing that the only person you really have control over is yourself.
libraries were full of ideas perhaps the most dangerous and powerful of all weapons.
lie to a liar, for lies are his coin, steal from a thief, for that is easy, lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at the first attempt, but beware of an honest man.
life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity or registering wrongs.
life asked death, why do people love me but hate you. death responded.
life becomes easier when you learn to accept the apology you never got.
life can only be understood backwards, but it must be lived forwards.
life has no meaning. each of us has meaning and we bring it to life. it is a waste to be asking the question when you are the answer.
life is 10 percent what happens to me and 90 percent of how i react to it.
life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it.
life is a book and there are a thousand pages i have not yet read.
life is a carousel, we all think that we are the only one driving it.
life is a comedy to those who think, and a tragedy to those who feel.
life is a cruel, horrible joke and i am the punch line.
life is a fatal complaint, and an eminently contagious one.
life is a festival only to the wise.
life is a foreign language, all men mispronounce it.
life is a long lesson in humility.
life is a moderately good play with a badly written third act.
life is a reciprocal exchange. to move forward, you have to give back.
life is a self fulfilling prophecy. in the long run you usually get what you expect.
life is a shipwreck, but we must not forget to sing in the lifeboats.
life is a tempo. take it slow. go at the right pace.
life is a thing that mutates without warning, not always in enviable ways. all part of the improbable adventure of being alive, of being a brainy biped with giant dreams on a crazy blue planet.
life is a zoo in a jungle.
life is an awful, ugly place to not have a best friend.
life is an unbroken succession of false situations.
life is as tedious as a twice told tale vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.
life is difficult and complicated and beyond anyone's total control, and the humility to know that will enable you to survive its vicissitudes.
life is divided into the horrible and the miserable.
life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.
life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about.
life is fickle, the fair man doesn't invariably win.
life is for the living.death is for the dead.let life be like music.and death a note unsaid.
life is full of misery, loneliness, and suffering and it's all over much too soon.
life is full of surprises and and serendipity. being open to unexpected turns in the road is an important part of success. if you try to plan every step, you may miss those wonderful twists and turns. just find your next adventure do it well, enjoy it and then, not now, think about what comes next.
life is indeed difficult, partly because of the real difficulties we must overcome in order to survive, and partly because of our own innate desire to always do better, to overcome new challenges, to self actualize. happiness is experienced largely in striving towards a goal, not in having attained things, because our nature is always to want to go on to the next endeavor.
life is just a bowl of pits.
life is just a mirror, and what you see out there, you must first see inside of you.
life is just one damned thing after another.
life is like an ocean.
life is like playing a violin in public and learning the instrument as one goes on.
life is like riding a bicycle. to keep your balance, you must keep moving.
life is more than just finding different beautiful views with the perfect inebriation.
life is most difficult exam. many people fail because they try to copy others, not realizing that everyone has a different exam.
life is not a journey to the grave with the intention to arrive safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming wow. what a ride.
life is not a spectacle or feast, it is a predicament.
life is not fair, get used to it.
life is not measured by the number of breaths we take, but by the moments that take our breath away.
life is pain, highness. anyone who says differently is selling something.
life is pleasant. death is peaceful. it's the transition that's troublesome.
life is short and the older you get, the more you feel it. indeed, the shorter it is. people lose their capacity to walk, run, travel, think, and experience life. i realize how important it is to use the time i have.
life is short. that's why you have to do whatever you want all the time.
life is so uncertain, you never know what could happen. one way to deal with that is to keep your pajamas washed.
life is something that everyone should try at least once.
life is something that happens when you can't get to sleep.
life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions from insufficient premises.
life is the flower for which love is the honey.
life is to be enjoyed, not endured.
life is two eternities of nothingness separated by one short moment of consciousness.
life is what happens to us while we are making other plans.
life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
life is without meaning. you bring the meaning to it.
life isn't about finding yourself. life is about creating yourself.
life isn't as serious as the mind makes it out to be.
life isn't fair. it's just fairer than death, that's all.
life isn't simple. but the beauty of it is, you can always start over. it'll get easier.
life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming wow. what a ride.
life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.
life was mostly made up of things you couldn't control, full of surprises, and they weren't always good. life wasn't what you made it. you were what life made you.
life will break you. nobody can protect you from that, and living alone won't either, for solitude will also break you with its yearning. you have to love. you have to feel. it is the reason you are here on earth. you are here to risk your heart. you are here to be swallowed up. and when it happens that you are broken, or betrayed, or left, or hurt, or death brushes near, let yourself sit by an apple tree and listen to the apples falling all around you in heaps, wasting their sweetness. tell yourself you tasted as many as you could.
life will let you fall as hard, as low, and as far as you care to let it.
life, he realize, was much like a song. in the beginning there is mystery, in the end there is confirmation, but it's in the middle where all the emotion resides to make the whole thing worthwhile.
life's a bitch, so you might as well make it your bitch.
life's battles don't always go to the stronger or faster man. but sooner or later the man who wins, is the man who thinks he can.
like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore, so do our minutes hasten to their end.
like many intellectuals, he was incapable of saying a simple thing in a simple way.
like most misery, it started with apparent happiness.
live as if you were to die tomorrow. learn as if you were to live forever.
live content with small means, seek elegance rather than luxury, and refinement rather than fashion. be worthy, not respectable, wealthy, not rich, study hard, think quietly, talk gently, act frankly, bear all cheerfully, do all bravely, await occasions, hurry never.
live in the present, remember the past, and fear not the future, for it doesn't exist and never shall. there is only now.
live in the sunshine, swim the sea, drink the wild air.
live life like it's your last day.
live to the point of tears.
live with intention. walk to the edge. listen hard. practice wellness. play with abandon. laugh. choose with no regrets. appreciate your friends. continue to learn. do what you love. live as if this is all there is.
live, travel, adventure, bless, and don't be sorry.
living at risk is jumping off the cliff and building your wings on the way down.
lock up your libraries if you like, but there is no gate, no lock, no bolt that you can set upon the freedom of my mind.
logic will get you from a to b. imagination will take you everywhere.
logic will get you from a to z, imagination will get you everywhere.
loneliness becomes an acid that eats away at you.
loneliness is dangerous. its addicting. once you see how peaceful it is, you dont want to deal with people.
loneliness is to be avoided, solitude is to be sought.i don't want to believe. i want to know.
look after my heart i've left it with you.
look at the clock when you are sitting idle. but never look at the clock when you are working.
look, all i know is what they taught me at command school. there are certain rules about a war and rule number one is young men die. and rule number two is doctors can't change rule number one.
lost time is never found again.
lots of people act well, but few people talk well. this shows that talking is the more difficult of the two.
love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.
love does not begin and end the way we seem to think it does. love is a battle, love is a war, love is a growing up.
love does not consist of gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction.
love doesn't just sit there, like a stone, it has to be made, like bread, remade all the time, made new.
love is a better teacher than duty.
love is a fire. but whether it is going to warm your hearth or burn down your house, you can never tell.
love is a friendship set to music.
love is a temporary madness, it erupts like volcanoes and then subsides. and when it subsides, you have to make a decision. you have to work out whether your roots have so entwined together that it is inconceivable that you should ever part. because this is what love is. love is not breathlessness, it is not excitement, it is not the promulgation of promises of eternal passion, it is not the desire to mate every second minute of the day, it is not lying awake at night imagining that he is kissing every cranny of your body. no, don't blush, i am telling you some truths. that is just being in love, which any fool can do. love itself is what is left over when being in love has burned away, and this is both an art and a fortunate accident.
love is always patient and kind. it is never jealous. love is never boastful or conceited. it is never rude or selfish. it does not take offense and is not resentful. love takes no pleasure in other people's sins, but delights in the truth. it is always ready to excuse, to trust, to hope, and to endure whatever comes.
love is an irresistible desire to be irresistibly desired.
love is an untamed force. when we try to control it, it destroys us. when we try to imprison it, it enslaves us. when we try to understand it, it leaves us feeling lost and confused.
love is friendship that has caught fire. it is quiet understanding, mutual confidence, sharing and forgiving. it is loyalty through good and bad times. it settles for less than perfection and makes allowances for human weaknesses.
love is like the wind, you can't see it but you can feel it.
love is needing someone. love is putting up with someone's bad qualities because they somehow complete you.
love is not affectionate feeling, but a steady wish for the loved person's ultimate good as far as it can be obtained.
love is patient, love is kind. it does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. it is not rude, it is not self seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. it always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres.
love is so short, forgetting is so long.
love is that condition in which the happiness of another person is essential to your own.
love is the greatest pain.
love is the master key which opens the gates of happiness.
love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into friend.
love is when he gives you a piece of your soul, that you never knew was missing.
love is when the other person's happiness is more important than your own.
love isn't a state of perfect caring. it is an active noun like struggle. to love someone is to strive to accept that person exactly the way he or she is, right here and now and to go on caring even through times that may bring us pain.
love keeps the cold out better than a cloak.
love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, and therefore is winged cupid painted blind.
love never dies a natural death. it dies because we don't know how to replenish its source. it dies of blindness and errors and betrayals. it dies of illness and wounds, it dies of weariness, of witherings, of tarnishings.
love sleep. my life has the tendency to fall apart when i'm awake, you know.
love someone who is going to love you back as much as you love them, because the worst part of loving someone, is being loved in half when you love them with everything.
love the journey and cherish destination.
love the life you live.live the life you love.
love your enemies, for they tell you your faults.
madness in great ones must not unwatched go.
make a friday a day to celebrate work well done that you can be proud of knowing that you just didn't put in time to the next pay check.
make friends with people who aren't your age. hang out with people whose first language isn't the same as yours. get to know someone who doesn't come from your social class. this is how you see the world. this is how you grow.
make it a rule never to give a child a book you would not read yourself.
make your faith larger than your fears and your dreams larger than your doubts.
making the simple complicated is commonplace, making the complicated simple, awesomely simple, that's creativity.
man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.
man is born to live, not to prepare for life.
man is least himself when he talks in his own person. give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth.
man is the only creature that refuses to be what he is.
man is the only creature who refuses to be what he is.
man may have discovered fire, but women discovered how to play with it.
man needs, for his happiness, not only the enjoyment of this or that, but hope and enterprise and change.
man should not be in the service of society. society should be in the service of man.
many a man who falls in love with a dimple makes the mistake of marrying the whole girl.
many men go fishing their entire lives without knowing it isn't fish they're after.
many people lose the small joys in the hope for the big happiness.
many people would sooner die than think. in fact they do.
many people, myself among them, feel better at the mere sight of a book.
many who seem to be struggling with adversity are happy, many, amid great affluence, are utterly miserable.
marriage is a state where two people can't stand living together and can't stand living apart.
mastering others is strength. mastering yourself is true power.
maturing is realizing how many things don't require your comment.
maturity is not when we start speaking big things. it is when we start understanding small things.
may the new year bring you courage to break your resolutions early. my own plan is to swear off every kind of virtue, so that i triumph even when i fall.
may the pain you have known and the conflict you have experienced give you the strength to walk through life facing each new situation with courage and optimism.
may you live every day of your life.
may you live in interesting times.
may your choices reflect your hopes, not your fears.
maybe everybody in the whole damn world is scared of each other.
maybe everyone can live beyond what they're capable of.
maybe if you would water your own lawn the grass would be greener on your side.
maybe it's not in the perfection of life that things make sense, but in the chaos.
maybe okay will be our always.
maybe our favorite quotations say more about us than about the stories and people we're quoting.
maybe there's something you're afraid to say, or someone you're afraid to love, or somewhere you're afraid to go. it's gonna hurt. it's gonna hurt because it matters.
maybe we'll meet again, when we are slightly older and our minds less hectic, and i'll be right for you and you'll be right for me. but right now i am chaos to your thoughts and you are poison to my heart.
maybe who we are isn't so much about what we do, but rather what we're capable of when we least expect it.
memories are what warm you up from the inside. but they're also what tear you apart.
memories warm you up from the inside. but they also tear you apart.
men are born to succeed, not fail.
men are like steel. when they lose their temper, they lose their worth.
men marry women with the hope they will never change. women marry men with the hope they will change. invariably they are both disappointed.
men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick themselves up and hurry off as if nothing ever happened.
men will always be mad, and those who think they can cure them are the maddest of all.
military intelligence is a contradiction in terms.
mind over matter.
minds are like parachutes. they only function when they are open.
mistakes are always forgivable, if one has the courage to admit them.
money can help you to get medicines but not health. money can help you to get soft pillows, but not sound sleep. money can help you to get material comforts, but not eternal bliss. money can help you to get ornaments, but not beauty. money will help you to get an electric earphone, but not natural hearing. attain the supreme wealth, wisdom, and you will have everything.
money can't buy happiness, but it can make you awfully comfortable while you're being miserable.
money doesn't change people, it just helps them be who they really are.
money may not make you happy, but without it you're probably gonna be sad.
morality, like art, means drawing a line someplace.
most are unhappy that the rose has thorns. few are happy that the thorns have a rose.
most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all.
most people are other people. their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.
most people overestimate what they can do in one year and underestimate what they can do in ten years.
most things will be okay eventually, but not everything will be.
motivation is what gets you started. habit is what keeps you going.
much of my life had been devoted to trying not to cry in front of people who loved me.
music expresses that which cannot be put into words and that which cannot remain silent.
music is a total constant. that's why we have such a strong visceral connection to it, you know. because a song can take you back instantly to a moment, or a place, or even a person. no matter what else has changed in your or the world, that one song says the same, just like that moment.
music was my refuge. i could crawl into the space between the notes and curl my back to loneliness.
my absolute favorite piece of information is the fact that young sloths are so inept that they frequently grab their own arms and legs instead of tree limbs, and fall out of trees.
my ambition is handicapped by laziness.
my best friend is the man who in wishing me well wishes it for my sake.
my coat and i live comfortably together. it has assumed all my wrinkles, does not hurt me anywhere, has moulded itself on my deformities, and is complacent to all my movements, and i only feel its presence because it keeps me warm. old coats and old friends are the same thing.
my daddy said, that the first time you fall in love, it changes you forever and no matter how hard you try, that feeling just never goes away.
my dear, find what you love and let it kill you. let it drain you of your all. let it cling onto your back and weigh you down into eventual nothingness. let it kill you and let it devour your remains. for all things will kill you, both slowly and fast, but it's much better to be killed by a lover.
my experience of life is that it is not divided up into genres, it's a horrifying, romantic, tragic, comical, science fiction cowboy detective novel.
my favorite things in life don't cost any money. it's really clear that the most precious resource we all have is time.
my first time i jacked off, i thought i'd invented it. i looked down at my sloppy handful of junk and thought, this is going to make me rich.
my formula for success is rise early, work late, and strike oil.
my friends are my estate.
my great hope is to laugh as much as i cry, to get my work done and try to love somebody and have the courage to accept the love in return.
my job is not to be easy on people. my job is to take these great people we have and to push them and make them even better.
my life amounts to no more than one drop in a limitless ocean. yet what is any ocean, but a multitude of drops.
my life has no purpose, no direction, no aim, no meaning, and yet i'm happy. i can't figure it out. what am i doing right.
my mission in life is not merely to survive, but to thrive, and to do so with some passion, some compassion, some humor, and some style.
my mother would say to me, look for the helpers. you will always find people who are helping.
my nightmares are usually about losing you. i'm okay once i realize you're here.
my soul is impatient with itself, as with a bothersome child, its restlessness keeps growing and is forever the same. everything interests me, but nothing holds me.
my success just evolved from working hard at the business at hand each day.
my tastes are simple, i am easily satisfied with the best.
my thoughts are stars i cannot fathom into constellations.
my wife and i were happy for twenty years, then we met.
myth is the public dream, dream is the private myth.
nature has invented reproduction as a mechanism for life to move forward. as a life force that passes right through us and makes us a link in the evolution of life.
nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power.
neither a wise man nor a brave man lies down on the tracks of history to wait for the train of the future to run over him.
never allow someone to be your priority while allowing yourself to be their option.
never be afraid to raise your voice for honesty and truth and compassion against injustice and lying and greed. if people all over the world. would do this, it would change the earth.
never be bullied into silence. never allow yourself to be made a victim. accept no one's definition of your life, define yourself.
never be too easy with the knowledge you possess. words are like coin it pays to hoard.
never close your lips to those whom you have already opened your heart.
never confuse a single defeat with a final defeat.
never cut a tree down in the wintertime. never make a negative decision in the low time. never make your most important decisions when you are in your worst moods. wait. be patient. the storm will pass. the spring will come.
never decrease the goal, always increase your efforts.
never discourage anyone who continually makes progress, no matter how slow.
never distrust your heart.
never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed, citizens can change the world. indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.
never exaggerate your faults. your friends will attend to that.
never explain your friends do not need it and your enemies will not believe you anyway.
never express yourself more clearly than you are able to think.
never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. make it your strength. then it can never be your weakness. armor yourself in it, and it will never be used to hurt you.
never give up on a dream just because of the time it will take to accomplish it. the time will pass anyway.
never give up. no one knows what's going to happen next.
never go to bed mad. stay up and fight.
never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake.
never let the future disturb you. you will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present.
never let your sense of morals prevent you from doing what is right.
never love anyone who treats you like you're ordinary.
never make someone a priority when all you are to them is an option.
never memorize something that you can look up.
never mistake motion for action.
never put off till tomorrow what may be done day after tomorrow just as well.
never ruin an apology with an excuse.
never say goodbye because goodbye means going away and going away means forgetting.
never say no to adventures. always say yes, otherwise you'll lead a very dull life.
never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it.
never trust anyone who has not brought a book with them.
never underestimate your power to change yourself. remember that overnight success usually takes about fifteen years.
nine tenths of wisdom is being wise in time.
no act of kindness no matter how small is ever wasted.
no amount of experimentation can ever prove me right, a single experiment can prove me wrong.
no book is really worth reading at the age of ten which is not equally and often far more worth reading at the age of fifty and beyond.
no coward soul is mine, no trembler in the world's storm.
no distance of place or lapse of time can lessen the friendship of those who are thoroughly persuaded of each other's worth.
no drug, not even alcohol, causes the fundamental ills of society. if we're looking for the source of our troubles, we shouldn't test people for drugs, we should test them for stupidity, ignorance, greed and love of power.
no enterprise can exist for itself alone. it ministers to some great need, it performs some great service, not for itself, but for others, or failing therein, it ceases to be profitable and ceases to exist.
no great discovery was ever made without a bold guess.
no human relation gives one possession in another every two souls are absolutely different. in friendship and in love, the two side by side raise hands together to find what one cannot reach alone.
no man can know where he is going unless he knows exactly where he has been and exactly how he arrived at his present place.
no man ever steps in the same river twice, for it is not the same river and he is not the same man.
no man has the right to be an amateur in the matter of physical training. it is a shame for a man to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of which his body is capable.
no man is rich enough to buy back his past.
no man is so foolish but he may sometimes give another good counsel, and no man so wise that he may not easily err if he takes no other counsel than his own. he that is taught only by himself has a fool for a master.
no man or woman who tries to pursue an ideal in his or her own way is without enemies.
no man steps in the same river twice, for it is not the same river, and he is not the same man.
no man, who continues to add something to the material, intellectual and moral well being of the place in which he lives, is left long without proper reward.
no matter how attractive a persons potential may be, you have to date their reality.
no matter how many mistakes you make or how slow you progress, you are still way ahead of everyone who isn't trying.
no matter how much suffering you went through, you never wanted to let go of those memories.
no matter how much you've failed or succeeded thus far, always start each day with the same passion and fervor as the first day.
no matter what happens next, don't be too hard on yourself. even now, after all you've done, you can still go home. lucky you.
no medicine cures what happiness cannot.
no one begrudges  for making money since he created value, but does begrudge a banker for his wealth since it was all achieved through shifting value.
no one can hate you with more intensity than someone who used to love you.
no one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
no one heals himself by wounding another.
no one is actually dead until the ripples they cause in the world die away.
no one would choose a friendless existence on condition of having all the other things in the world.
no passion is stronger in the breast of man than the desire to make others believe as he believes. nothing so cuts at the root of his happiness and fills him with rage as the sense that another rates low what he prizes high.
no person can be a great leader unless he takes genuine joy in the successes of those under him.
no person is your friend who demands your silence, or denies your right to grow.
no pessimist ever discovered the secret of the stars, or sailed to uncharted land, or opened a new heaven in the human spirit.
no relationship is perfect, ever. there are always some ways you have to bend, to compromise, to give something up in order to gain something greater. the love we have for each other is bigger than these small differences. and that's the key. it's like a big pie chart, and the love in a relationship has to be the biggest piece. love can make up for a lot.
no snowflake in an avalanche ever feels responsible.
no tears in the writer, no tears in the reader. no surprise in the writer, no surprise in the reader.
no thief, however skillful, can rob one of knowledge, and that is why knowledge is the best and safest treasure to acquire.
no tyrant could thrive where every subject said no. the tyrant thrives when the first fucking fool salutes.
no woman really wants a man to carry her off, she only wants him to want to do it.
no, i'm just a very naughty boy. i do all sorts of bad things. i kick kittens. i make rude gestures at nuns.
nobody can hurt me without my permission.
nobody ever figures out what life is all about, and it doesn't matter. explore the world. nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply enough.
nobody has ever measured, not even poets, how much the heart can hold.
nobody likes being alone that much. i don't go out of my way to make friends, that's all. it just leads to disappointment.
nobody likes being alone. i just hate to be disappointed.
nobody realizes that some people expend tremendous energy merely to be normal.
nobody's journey is seamless or smooth. we all stumble. we all have setbacks. it's just life's way of saying, time to change course.
non violence is the greatest force at the disposal of mankind. it is mightier than the mightiest weapon of destruction devised by the ingenuity of man.
none but ourselves can free our minds.
normal is an illusion. what is normal for the spider, is chaos for the fly.
normal is getting dressed in clothes that you buy for work and driving through traffic in a car that you are still paying for in order to get to the job you need to pay for the clothes and the car, and the house you leave vacan't all day so you can afford to live in it.
normality is a paved road, it's comfortable to walk, but no flowers grow on it.
not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious.
not all of us can do great things. but we can do small things with great love.
not all opportunities are to be taken. some are traps.
not all paths lead to success, but the one you choose will always lead to happiness.
not all those who wander are lost.
not my daughter, you bitch.
nothing ever ends poetically. it ends and we turn it into poetry. all that blood was never once beautiful. it was just red.
nothing haunts us like the things we don't say.
nothing is as obnoxious as other people's luck.
nothing is impossible, the word itself says i'm possible.
nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
nothing is ugly.
nothing noble is done without risk.
nothing of me is original. i am the combined effort of everyone i've ever known.
nothing pains some people more than having to think.
nothing takes the heart out of a man more than the expectation of failure.
nothing that's worthwhile is ever easy. remember that.
notice that the stiffest tree is most easily cracked, while the bamboo or willow survives by bending with the wind.
now he has departed from this strange world a little ahead of me. that means nothing. people like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion.
now i see that i will never find the light, unless, like the candle, i am my own fuel, consuming myself.
now now my good man, this is no time to be making enemies.
now, the human experience has in some ways changed but in many ways it has stayed pretty much the same.
nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.
numbing the pain for a while will make it worse when you finally feel it.
obey the principles without being bound by them.
obsessed with each other's death until death is all we can see, and death is all we deserve.
obstacles are those frightful things you see when you take your eyes off your goals.
of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these, it might have been.
of all the trees we could've hit, we had to get one that hits back.
of those who say nothing, few are silent.
often the best source of information about waste, fraud, and abuse in government is an existing government employee committed to public integrity and willing to speak out.
oh well. i'd just been thinking, if you had died, you'd have been welcome to share my toilet.
oh, life is a glorious cycle of song.
oh, you hate your job. why didn't you say so. there's a support group for that. it's called everybody, and they meet at the bar.
on my business card, i am a corporate president. in my mind, i am a game developer. but in my heart, i am a gamer.
on particularly rough days when i'm sure i can't possibly endure, i like to remind myself that my track record for getting through bad days so far, is 100 percent and that's pretty good.
on the internet, you can be anything you want. it's strange that so many people choose to be stupid.
once a man has made a commitment to a way of life, he puts the greatest strength in the world behind him. it's something we call heart power. once a man has made this commitment, nothing will stop him short of success.
once the ego is born into this world, it must shoulder morality.
once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl, and her laughter was a question he wanted to spend his whole life answering.
once you can accept the universe as matter expanding into nothing that is something, wearing stripes with plaid comes easy.
once you have been through a certain amount of things in life, you definitely grow more comfortable with yourself. to persevere and hang in there and believe in yourself.
once you have tasted flight, you will forever walk the earth with your eyes turned skyward, for there you have been, and there you will always long to return.
once you learn to quit, it becomes a habit.
once you learn to read, you will be forever free.
once you replace negative thoughts with positive ones, you'll start having positive results.
one can never consent to creep when one feels an impulse to soar.one can never have enough socks. another christmas has come and gone and i didn't get a single pair. people will insist on giving me books.
one cannot think well, love well, sleep well, if one has not dined well.
one child, one teacher, one book and one pen can change the world.
one day i sat thinking, almost in despair, a hand fell on my shoulder and a voice said reassuringly, cheer up, things could get worse. so i cheered up and, sure enough, things got worse.
one day i will find the right words, and they will be simple.
one day you will kiss a man you can't breathe without, and find that breath is of little consequence.
one day you will wake up and there won't be any more time to do the things you've always wanted. do it now.
one day, in retrospect, the years of struggle will strike you as the most beautiful.
one day, whether you are 14, 28 or 65, you will stumble upon someone who will start a fire in you that cannot die. however, the saddest, most awful truth you will ever come to find is they are not always with whom we spend our lives.
one day, you're 17 and you're planning for someday. and then quietly, without you ever really noticing, someday is today. and then someday is yesterday. and this is your life.
one evening while september was young i peeped out of window. i saw scarlet sky. wonder how many sunsets have i missed.
one good thing about music, when it hits you, you feel no pain.
one is loved because one is loved. no reason is needed for loving.
one is more certain to influence men, to produce more effect on them, by absurdities than by sensible ideas.
one love, one heart, one destiny.
one man's revolution is another man's terrorist.
one of the cruelest things you can do to another person is pretend you care about them more than you really do.
one of the hardest decisions you'll ever face in life is choosing whether to walk away or try harder.
one of the hardest things you will ever have to do is grieve the loss of a person who is still alive.
one of the keys to happiness is a bad memory.
one of the worst feelings is to not have enough money in the bank to go out and start a new project.
one ought, each day at least, to hear a little song, read a good poem, see a fine picture and, if possible, speak a few reasonable words.
one reason why birds and horses are not unhappy is because they are not trying to impress other birds and horses.
one who is truly wise understands that there is an ultimate source of wisdom. therefore, wisdom cannot be created or destroyed. wisdom can only be discovered.
one, remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. two, never give up work. work gives you meaning and purpose and life is empty without it. three, if you are lucky enough to find love, remember it is there and don't throw it away.
only a true best friend can protect you from your immortal enemies.
only in the darkness can you see the stars.
only once in your life, i truly believe, you find someone who can completely turn your world around. you tell them things that you've never shared with another soul and they absorb everything you say and actually want to hear more. you share hopes for the future, dreams that will never come true, goals that were never achieved and the many disappointments life has thrown at you. when something wonderful happens, you can't wait to tell them about it, knowing they will share in your excitement. they are not embarrassed to cry with you when you are hurting or laugh with you when you make a fool of yourself. never do they hurt your feelings or make you feel like you are not good enough, but rather they build you up and show you the things about yourself that make you special and even beautiful. there is never any pressure, jealousy or competition but only a quiet calmness when they are around. you can be yourself and not worry about what they will think of you because they love you for who you are. the things that seem insignificant to most people such as a note, song or walk become invaluable treasures kept safe in your heart to cherish forever. memories of your childhood come back and are so clear and vivid it's like being young again. colors seem brighter and more brilliant. laughter seems part of daily life where before it was infrequent or didn't exist at all. a phone call or two during the day helps to get you through a long day's work and always brings a smile to your face. in their presence, there's no need for continuous conversation, but you find you're quite content in just having them nearby. things that never interested you before become fascinating because you know they are important to this person who is so special to you. you think of this person on every occasion and in everything you do. simple things bring them to mind like a pale blue sky, gentle wind or even a storm cloud on the horizon. you open your heart knowing that there's a chance it may be broken one day and in opening your heart, you experience a love and joy that you never dreamed possible. you find that being vulnerable is the only way to allow your heart to feel true pleasure that's so real it scares you. you find strength in knowing you have a true friend and possibly a soul mate who will remain loyal to the end. life seems completely different, exciting and worthwhile. your only hope and security is in knowing that they are a part of your life.
only open your mouth if what you have to say is more beautiful than silence.
only put off until tomorrow what you are willing to die having left undone.
only the coward and the strong survive, there's no place for the brave.
only the dead have seen the end of war.
only the shallow know themselves.
only the suppressed word is dangerous.
only the very weak minded refuse to be influenced by literature and poetry.
only the weak are cruel. gentleness can only be expected from the strong.
only those who attempt the absurd can achieve the impossible.
only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly.
opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed in overalls and looks like work.
optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. nothing can be done without hope and confidence.
ost people are other people. their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.
others can stop you temporarily. you are the only one who can do it permanently.
ou don't love someone for their looks, or their clothes, or for their fancy car, but because they sing a song only you can hear.
ou know when you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.
our best thoughts come from others.
our fatigue is often caused not by work, but by worry, frustration and resentment.
our hearts are not stones. a stone may disintegrate in time and lose its outward form. but hearts never disintegrate. they have no outward form, and whether good or evil, we can always communicate them to one another.
our indifference or cruelty towards fellow creatures of this world sooner or later affects the treatment we mete out to other human beings.
our language has wisely sensed the two sides of being alone. it has created the word loneliness to express the pain of being alone. and it has created the word solitude to express the glory of being alone.
our lives begin to end the day we become silent about things that matter.
our most original compositions are composed exclusively of expressions derived from others.
our natural state isn't within of this world, but another one. the earth is just an attachment.
our story has three parts, a beginning, a middle, and an end. and although this is the way all stories unfold, i still can't believe that ours didn't go on forever.
outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend. inside of a dog it's too dark to read.
pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. the really great men must, i think, have great sadness on earth.
pain is inevitable. suffering is optional.
pain is temporary. quitting lasts forever.
painting is poetry that is seen rather than felt, and poetry is painting that is felt rather than seen.
participate joyfully in the sorrows of the world.
patience is the companion of wisdom.
peace begins with a smile.
peace cannot be kept by force, it can only be achieved by understanding.
people act strange around death.
people are about as happy as they make up their minds to be.
people are afraid of themselves, of their own reality, their feelings most of all. people talk about how great love is, but that's bullshit. love hurts. feelings are disturbing. people are taught that pain is evil and dangerous. how can they deal with love if they're afraid to feel. pain is meant to wake us up. people try to hide their pain. but they're wrong. pain is something to carry, like a radio. you feel your strength in the experience of pain. it's all in how you carry it. that's what matters. pain is a feeling. your feelings are a part of you. your own reality. if you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you're letting society destroy your reality. you should stand up for your right to feel your pain.
people are like stained glass windows. they sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in, their true beauty is revealed only if there is a light from within.
people aren't born good or bad. maybe they're born with tendencies either way, but its the way you live your life that matters.
people believe whatever suits them.
people can lose their lives in libraries. they ought to be warned.
people do not like to think. if one thinks, one must reach conclusions. conclusions are not always pleasant.
people don't change.
people find it far easier to forgive others for being wrong than being right.
people generally see what they look for, and hear what they listen for.
people have a hard time letting go of their suffering. out of a fear of the unknown, they prefer suffering that is familiar.
people have to talk about something just to keep their good voice boxes in working order, so they'll have good voice boxes in case there's ever anything really meaningful to say.
people haven't always been there for me but music always has.
people of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they don't know when to quit. most men succeed because they are determined to.
people only mention it's a free country if they're doing something bad.
people pretend not to like grapes when the vines are too high for them to reach.
people rarely succeed unless they have fun in what they are doing.
people say i love you all the time. when they say take an umbrella, it's raining, or hurry back, or even watch out, you'll break your neck.
people say nothing is impossible, but i do nothing every day.
people say that life is the thing, but i prefer reading.
people think a soul mate is your perfect fit, and that's what everyone wants. but a true soul mate is a mirror, the person who shows you everything that is holding you back, the person who brings you to your own attention so you can change your life.a true soul mate is probably the most important person you'll ever meet, because they tear down your walls and smack you awake. but to live with a soul mate forever. nah. too painful. soul mates, they come into your life just to reveal another layer of yourself to you, and then leave.a soul mates purpose is to shake you up, tear apart your ego a little bit, show you your obstacles and addictions, break your heart open so new light can get in, make you so desperate and out of control that you have to transform your life, then introduce you to your spiritual master.
people think being alone makes you lonely, but i don't think thats true. being surrounded by the wrong people is the loneliest thing in the world.
people think dreams aren't real just because they aren't made of matter, of particles. dreams are real. but they are made of viewpoints, of images, of memories and puns and lost hopes.
people who are brutally honest generally enjoy the brutality more than the honesty.
people who are unable to motivate themselves must be content with mediocrity no matter how impressive their other talents.
people who are unable to motivate themselves must be content with mediocrity, no matter how impressive their other talents.
people who claim that they're evil are usually no worse than the rest of us. it's people who claim that they're good, or any way better than the rest of us, that you have to be wary of.
people who have what they want are very fond of telling people who haven't what they want that they don't want it.
people who say they sleep like a baby usually don't have one.
people who think they know everything are a great annoyance to those of us who do.
people will kill you over time, and how they'll kill you is with tiny, harmless phrases, like be realistic.
people wish to learn to swim and at the same time to keep one foot on the ground.
people with nothing to hide don't usually feel the need to say so.
people worry about kids playing with guns, and teenagers watching violent videos, we are scared that some sort of culture of violence will take them over. nobody worries about kids listening to thousands literally thousands of songs about broken hearts and rejection and pain and misery and loss.
people, i have discovered, are layers and layers of secrets. you believe you know them, that you understand them, but their motives are always hidden from you, buried in their own hearts. you will never know them, but sometimes you decide to trust them.
percy wouldn't notice a joke if it danced naked in front of him wearing one of dobby's hats.
perhaps i know best why it is man alone who laughs, he alone suffers so deeply that he had to invent laughter.
perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood.
perhaps when we find ourselves wanting everything, it is because we are dangerously close to wanting nothing.
perseverance is a great element of success. if you only knock long enough and loud enough at the gate, you are sure to wake up somebody.
pick battles big enough to matter, small enough to win.
plans are worthless, but planning is everything.
playing things too safe is the most popular way to fail.
poets have been mysteriously silent on the subject of cheese.
politics should bore people, because the work of government is boring.
poverty is the worst form of violence.
power is founded upon opinion.
prediction is very difficult, especially about the future.
problems cannot be solved with the same mindset that created them.
production of too many useful things produces too many useless people.
progress comes from the intelligent use of experience.
promise me you'll always remember, you're braver than you believe, and stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.
promise yourself to be so strong that nothing can disturb your peace of mind. to talk health, happiness, and prosperity to every person you meet. to make all your friends feel that there is something in them. to look at the sunny side of everything and make your optimism come true. to think only the best, to work only for the best, and to expect only the best. to be just as enthusiastic about the success of others as you are about your own. to forget the mistakes of the past and press on to the greater achievements of the future. to wear a cheerful countenance at all times and give every living creature you meet a smile. to give so much time to the improvement of yourself that you have no time to criticize others. to be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong for fear, and too happy to permit the presence of trouble. to think well of yourself and to proclaim this fact to the world, not in loud words but great deeds. to live in faith that the whole world is on your side so long as you are true to the best that is in you.
punctuality is the thief of time.
put light against light you have nothing. put dark against dark you have nothing. its the contrast of light and dark that each give the other one meaning.
put trust in the fool and you become the fool.
put your hand on a hot stove for a minute, and it seems like an hour. sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like a minute. that's relativity.
racism is there and it is a constant. you're tired of hearing about it. imagine how exhausting it is living it.
racism is to hate something you randomly aren't.
raise your words, not your voice, it is the rain that grows flowers, not the thunder.
raise your words, not your voice. it is rain that grows flowers, not thunder.
rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.
rarely do we find men who willingly engage in hard, solid thinking. there is an almost universal quest for easy answers and half baked solutions.
rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth.
read, read, read. read everything trash, classics, good and bad, and see how they do it. just like a carpenter who works as an apprentice and studies the master. read. you'll absorb it. then write. if it's good, you'll find out. if it's not, throw it out of the window.
reading furnishes the mind only with materials of knowledge, it is thinking that makes what we read ours.
reading is escape, and the opposite of escape, it's a way to make contact with reality after a day of making things up, and it's a way of making contact with someone else's imagination after a day that's all too real.
reading is one form of escape. running for your life is another.
reading makes a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man.
reading was my escape and my comfort, my consolation, my stimulant of choice, reading for the pure pleasure of it, for the beautiful stillness that surrounds you when you hear an author's words reverberating in your head.
real living is living for others.
reality continues to ruin my life.
reality is just a crutch for people who can't handle drugs.
reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.
reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.
reality is wrong. dreams are for real.
reality isn't made out of matter, but what matters.
reality, what a concept.
reason is experimental intelligence, conceived after the pattern of science, and used in the creation of social arts, it has something to do. it liberates man from the bondage of the past, due to ignorance and accident hardened into custom. it projects a better future and assists man in its realization.
reasoning will never make a man correct an ill opinion, which by reasoning he never acquired.
regret for the things we did can be tempered by time, it is regret for the things we did not do that is inconsolable.
regrets are illuminations that have come too late.
remember red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.
remember that a person's name is to that person the sweetest and most important sound in any language.
remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. there have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible but in the end, they always fall think of it, always.
remember that happiness is a way of travel, not a destination.
remember that wherever your heart is, there you will find your treasure.
remember the five simple rules to be happy, free your heart from hatred. free your mind from worries. live simply. give more. expect less.
remember to always be yourself. unless you suck.
remember, reality is an illusion, the universe is a hologram, buy gold.
remember, success is a journey, not a destination. have faith in your ability. you will do just fine.
remember, the time you feel lonely is the time you most need to be by yourself. life's cruelest irony.
remember, today is the tomorrow you worried about yesterday.
remember, we're madly in love, so it's all right to kiss me anytime you feel like it.
remembering that you are going to die is the best way i know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. you are already naked. there is no reason not to follow your heart.
resist much, obey little.
respect yourself enough to walk away from anything that no longer serves you, grows you, or makes you happy.
right now i'm having amnesia and deja vu at the same time. i think i've forgotten this before.
risk is what separates the good part of life from the tedium.
routine kills art.
rule number one is, don't sweat the small stuff. rule number two is, its all small stuff.
sanity and happiness are an impossible combination.
sarcasm is the last refuge of the imaginatively bankrupt.
satisfaction does not come with achievement, but with effort. full effort is full victory.
say provoking again. your mouth looks provocative when you do.
saying i notice you're a nerd is like saying, hey, i notice that you'd rather be intelligent than be stupid, that you'd rather be thoughtful than be vapid, that you believe that there are things that matter more than the arrest record of lindsay lohan. why is that. in fact, it seems to me that most contemporary insults are pretty lame. even lame is kind of lame. saying you're lame is like saying you walk with a limp. yeah, whatever, so does 50 cent, and he's done all right for himself.
scattered through the ordinary world there are books and artifacts and perhaps people who are like doorways into impossible realms, of impossible and contradictory truth.
science may have found a cure for most evils, but it has found no remedy for the worst of them all, the apathy of human beings.
security is mostly a superstition. it does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.
security is mostly a superstition. life is either a daring adventure or nothing.
seeing someone reading a book you love is seeing a book recommending a person.
seek respect, not attention. it lasts longer.
seeking quotes about overcoming fears, adversity, etc.
setting an example is not the main means of influencing others, it is the only means.
setting goals is the first step in turning the invisible into the visible.
sex is like air, it's not important unless you aren't getting any.
shallow men believe in luck, believe in circumstances, it was somebody's name, or he happened to be there at the time, or it was so then, and another day it would have been otherwise. strong me believe in cause and effect.
she is too fond of books, and it has turned her brain.
she said, i'm so afraid. and i said, why, and she said, because i'm so profoundly happy. happiness like this is frightening. i asked her why and she said, they only let you be this happy if they're preparing to take something from you.
she was a girl who knew how to be happy even when she was sad. and that's important you know.
she wasn't bitter. she was sad, though. but it was a hopeful kind of sad. the kind of sad that just takes time.
she wasn't doing a thing i could see, except standing there leaning on the balcony railing, holding the universe together.
she's in front of me, but at the same time a million miles away.
shine boldly so that all may find you when the night falls.
ships don't sink because of the water around them, ships sink because of the water that gets in them. don't let what's happening around you get inside you and weigh you down.
should i kill myself, or have a cup of coffee.
show me a hero, and i'll write you a tragedy.
showing off is the fool's idea of glory.
silence is deafening for those used to the roar.
silence is golden when you cant think of a good answer.
silence make the real conversations between friends. not the saying, but the never needing to say that counts.
simplicity, patience, compassion. these three are your greatest treasures. simple in actions and thoughts, you return to the source of being. patient with both friends and enemies,you accord with the way things are. compassionate toward yourself,you reconcile all beings in the world.
simply make every day a success.
sleep is good, he said, and books are better.
smile a while and while you smile, smile another smile and soon there will be miles and miles of smile just because you smiled.
smile my boy, it's sunrise.
so avoid using the word very because its lazy. a man is not very tired, he is exhausted. don't use very sad, use morose. language was invented for one reason, boys to woo women and, in that endeavor, laziness will not do. it also won't do in your essays.
so convenient a thing it is to be a reasonable creature, since it enables one to find or make a reason for everything one has a mind to do.
so i walked back to my room and collapsed on the bottom bunk, thinking that if people were rain, i was drizzle and she was a hurricane.
so it's not gonna be easy. it's going to be really hard, we're gonna have to work at this everyday, but i want to do that because i want you. i want all of you, forever, everyday. you and me. everyday.
so please try not to hate me. i am a flawed human being a far more flawed human being than you realize.
so the universe is not quite as you thought it was. you'd better rearrange your beliefs, then. because you certainly can't rearrange the universe.
so we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.
so what's wrong if there happens to be one guy in the world who enjoys trying to understand you.
so you think i'm a loser. just because i have a stinking job that i hate, a family that doesn't respect me, a whole city that curses the day i was born. well, that may mean loser to you, but let me tell you something.
so, i guess we are who we are for a lot of reasons. and maybe we'll never know most of them. but even if we don't have the power to choose where we come from, we can still choose where we go from there. we can still do things. and we can try to feel okay about them.
so, i love you because the entire universe conspired to help me find you.
so, this is my life. and i want you to know that i am both happy and sad and i'm still trying to figure out how that could be.
social anxiety makes you think that you aren't worth as much as other people. i honestly feel like my presence irritates other people.
society highly values its normal man. it educates children to lose themselves and to become absurd, and thus to be normal. normal men have killed perhaps 100,000,000 of their fellow normal men in the last fifty years.
solitude is fine but you need someone to tell that solitude is fine.
some birds are not meant to be caged, that's all. their feathers are too bright, their songs too sweet and wild. so you let them go, or when you open the cage to feed them they somehow fly out past you. and the part of you that knows it was wrong to imprison them in the first place rejoices, but still, the place where you live is that much more drab and empty for their departure.
some books should be tasted, some devoured, but only a few should be chewed and digested thoroughly.
some cause happiness wherever they go, others whenever they go.
some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again.
some humans would do anything to see if it was possible to do it. if you put a large switch in some cave somewhere, with a sign on it saying end of the world switch. please do not touch', the paint wouldn't even have time to dry.
some infinities are bigger than other infinities.
some men would rather pursue happiness than obtain it.
some old wounds never truly heal, and bleed again at the slightest word.
some people are born on third base and go through life thinking they hit a triple.
some people are like clouds. when they go away, it's a brighter day.
some people aren't loyal to you, they are loyal to their need of you. once their needs change, so does their loyalty.
some people care too much. i think it's called love.
some people die at 25 and aren't buried until 75.
some people don't understand the promises they're making when they make them,  i said. right, of course. but you keep the promise anyway. that's what love is. love is keeping the promise anyway.
some people feel the rain. others just get wet.
some people have lives, some people have music.
some people use language to express thought, some to conceal thought, and others instead of thought.
some say the world will end in fire, some say in ice. from what i've tasted of desire,i hold with those who favor fire. but if it had to perish twice i think i know enough of hate to say that for destruction iceis also great and would suffice.
some succeed by what they know, some by what they do, and a few by what they are.
some things don't last forever, but some things do. like a good song, or a good book, or a good memory you can take out and unfold in your darkest times, pressing down on the corners and peering in close, hoping you still recognize the person you see there.
some tourists think amsterdam is a city of sin, but in truth it is a city of freedom. and in freedom, most people find sin.
some women choose to follow men, and some women choose to follow their dreams. if you're wondering which way to go, remember that your career will never wake up and tell you that it doesn't love you anymore.
someday, somewhere anywhere, unfailingly, you'll find yourself, and that, and only that, can be the happiest or bitterest hour of your life.
someone's opinion of you doesn't determine your success.
sometime, when you least expect it, you'll realize that someone loved you. and that means that someone can love you again. and that'll make you smile.
sometimes crying or laughing are the only options left, and laughing feels better right now.
sometimes fate is like a small sandstorm that keeps changing directions. you change direction but the sandstorm chases you. you turn again, but the storm adjusts..
sometimes i can hear my bones straining under the weight of all the lives i'm not living.
sometimes i lie awake at night, and i ask, where have i gone wrong'. then a voice says to me, this is going to take more than one night.
sometimes i think the surest sign that intelligent life exists elsewhere in the universe is that none of it has tried to contact us.
sometimes it seems safer to hold it all in, where the only person who can judge is yourself.
sometimes it's a form of love just to talk to somebody that you have nothing in common with and still be fascinated by their presence.
sometimes life is going to hit you in the head with a brick. don't lose faith.
sometimes me think, what is friend. and then me say, friend is someone to share the last cookie with.
sometimes our light goes out, but is blown again into instant flame by an encounter with another human being.
sometimes people are beautiful.not in looks.not in what they say.just in what they are.
sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed.
sometimes people forget that money is a tool not a goal.
sometimes science is more art than science, a lot of people don't get that.
sometimes the most efficient thing you can do is be patient.
sometimes the questions are complicated and the answers are simple.
sometimes we face challenges in our lives. its very easy to give up. its very easy to quit. but the truth is that quitting sucks.
sometimes when i'm talking, my words can't keep up with my thoughts. i wonder why we think faster than we speak. probably so we can think twice.
sometimes when you innovate, you make mistakes. it is best to admit them quickly, and get on with improving your other innovations.
sometimes you climb out of bed in the morning and you think, i'm not going to make it, but you laugh inside remembering all the times you've felt that way.
sometimes you gotta leap and grow your wings on the way down.
sometimes you have to be apart from people you love, but that doesn't make you love them any less. sometimes you love them more.
sometimes you make choices in life and sometimes choices make you.
sometimes you tell someone to never speak to you again and then the phone rings and you hope it's them. its the most twisted logic of all time.
sometimes you wake up. sometimes the fall kills you. and sometimes, when you fall, you fly.
sometimes you will never know the value of a moment until it becomes a memory.
sometimes your joy is the source of your smile, but sometimes your smile can be the source of your joy.
sometimes, carrying on, just carrying on, is the superhuman achievement.
sometimes, the person you'd take a bullet for is the one behind the gun.
sometimes, the smallest things take up the most room in your heart.
sometimes, there's no closure, you just need to close the door.
sometimes, you read a book and it fills you with this weird evangelical zeal, and you become convinced that the shattered world will never be put back together unless and until all living humans read the book.
somewhere, something incredible is waiting to be known.
sorrows are our best educator. a man can see further through a tear than a telescope.
speak only if it improves upon the silence.
speak the truth, even if your voice shakes.
speak when you are angry and you will make the best speech you will ever regret.
speech is conveniently located midway between thought and action, where it often substitutes for both.
spend your money on the things money can buy. spend your time on the things money can't buy.
spread love everywhere you go. let no one ever come to you without leaving happier.
start off every day with a smile and get it over with.
start writing, no matter what. the water does not flow until the faucet is turned on.
stay afraid, but do it anyway. whats important is the action. you don't have to wait to be confident. just do it and eventually the confidence will follow.
stay away from negative people they have a problem for every solution.
stay away from people who make you feel like you are hard to love.
stay committed to your decisions, but stay flexible in your approach.
stay hungry, stay foolish.
stop acting so small. you are the universe in ecstatic motion.
stop putting yourself out there on everything you do in life because the mystery that follows you is always better than an open book that everyone has read.
stop waiting for things to happen. go out and make them happen.
stop wishing, be it.
stories may well be lies, but they are good lies that say true things, and which can sometimes pay the rent.
stories never really end.even if the books like to pretend they do. stories always go on. they don't end on the last page, any more than they begin on the first page.
stories of imagination tend to upset those without one.
strength does not come from physical capacity, it comes from indomitable will.
strength does't come from what you can do. it comes from overcoming the thing you once thought you couldn't.
strength of mind is exercise, not rest.
stress can ruin every day of your life, dying can only ruin one.
students who acquire large debts putting themselves through school are unlikely to think about changing society, when you trap people in a system of debt, they can't afford the time to think.
studies show owning a ladder is more dangerous that a loaded gun. that's why i own ten guns, just in case some fool tries to sneak in here with a ladder.
stupid people are dangerous.
suburbia is where the developer bulldozes out the trees, then names the streets after them.
success does not consist in never making mistakes but in never making the same one a second time.
success is a lousy teacher. it seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.
success is counted sweetest by those who ne'er succeed.
success is dependent upon the glands, sweat glands.
success is getting what you want, happiness is wanting what you get.
success is getting what you want. happiness is wanting what you get.
success is going from failure to failure without losing your enthusiasm.
success is going from failure to failure without loss of enthusiasm.
success is how high you bounce when you hit bottom.
success is liking yourself, liking what you do, and liking how you do it.
success is not final, failure is not fatal, it is the courage to continue that counts.
success is not the key to happiness. happiness is the key to success. if you love what you are doing, you will be successful.
success is simply a matter of luck. ask any failure.
success is the maximum utilization of the ability that you have.
success is when you beat your fear of failure.
success makes so many people hate you. i wish it wasn't that way. it would be wonderful to enjoy success without seeing envy in the eyes of those around you.
sucking at something is the first step to being sorta good at something.
suicide doesn't take away the pain, it gives it to someone else.
suicide is the act of killing an innocent body because of a diseased mind.
sure i'll get a little less done today if i stop and teach you how to do something, but that'll make you more productive tomorrow.
surplus wealth is a sacred trust which its possessor is bound to administer in his life time for the good of the community.
sweet is the scene where genial friendship plays the pleasing game of interchanging praise.
swerve me. the path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.
take a chance. all life is a chance. the man who goes farthest is generally the one who is willing to do and dare.
take calculated risks. that is quite different from being rash.
take control of your consistent emotions and begin to consciously and deliberately reshape your daily experience of life.
take pride in your pain, you are stronger than those who have none.
take wrong turns. talk to strangers. open unmarked doors. and if you see a group of people in a field, go find out what they are doing. do things without always knowing how they'll turn out.
take your broken heart and make it into art.
take your broken heart, make it into art.
taking and giving is the counterpart of a sense of right.
taking your own life. interesting expression, taking it from who. once it's over, it's not you who'll miss it. your own death is something that happens to everyone else. your life is not your own, keep your hands off it.
talent alone won't make you a success. neither will being in the right place at the right time, unless you are ready. the most important question is, are you ready.
talent hits a target no one else can hit, genius hits a target no one else can see.
talent is a pursued interest. anything that you're willing to practice, you can do.
talking to you is like trying to hammer a nail into a rock.
technology is just a tool. in terms of getting the kids working together and motivating them, the teacher is the most important.
tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life.
tell the truth, or someone will tell it for you.
telling good from unadulterated evil is simple enough. the real difficulty, though, lies in telling the truly good from the seemingly good. some powers appear in disguise. one must be alert.
telling someone they can't be sad because others have it worse is like saying someone can't be happy because others have it better.
that is part of the beauty of all literature. you discover that your longings are universal longings, that you're not lonely and isolated from anyone. you belong.
that is the consolation of a little mind, you have the fun of changing it without impeding the progress of mankind.
that it will never come again is what makes life so sweet.
that men do not learn very much from the lessons of history is the most important of all the lessons of history.
that men do not learn very much from the lessons of history is the most important of all the lessons that history has to teach.
that moment when you finish a book, look around, and realize that everyone is just carrying on with their lives as though you didn't just experience emotional trauma at the hands of a paperback.
that was the thing. you never got used to it, the idea of someone being gone. just when you think it's reconciled, accepted, someone points it out to you, and it just hits you all over again, that shocking.
that which does not kill us makes us stronger.
that's always seemed so ridiculous to me, that people want to be around someone because they're pretty. it's like picking your breakfast cereals based on color instead of taste.
that's been one of my mantras focus and simplicity. simple can be harder than complex. you have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple. but it's worth it in the end because once you get there, you can move mountains.
that's the best revenge of all, happiness, nothing drives people crazier than seeing someone have a good life.
that's the problem with drinking, i thought, as i poured myself a drink. if something bad happens you drink in an attempt to forget, if something good happens you drink in order to celebrate, and if nothing happens you drink to make something happen.
that's the thing about books. they let you travel without moving your feet.
that's what the world is, after all, an endless battle of contrasting memories.
thats the thing about people who mean everything they say. they think everyone else does too.
the art of being happy lies in the power of extracting happiness from common things.
the average person puts only 25 percent of his energy and ability into his work. the world takes off its hat to those who put in more than 50 percent of their capacity, and stands on its head for those few and far between souls who devote 100 percent.
the axe forgets, the tree remembers.
the beauty of the past belongs to the past.
the best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. they must be felt with the heart.
the best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. no apologies or excuses. no one to lean on, rely on, or blame. the gift is yours it is an amazing journey and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. this is the day your life really begins.
the best index to a person's character is how he treats people who can't do him any good, and how he treats people who can't fight back.
the best love is the kind that awakens the soul and makes us reach for more, that plants a fire in our hearts and brings peace to our minds. and that's what you've given me. that's what i'd hoped to give you forever
the best minds of my generation are thinking about how to make people click ads. that sucks.
the best of life is conversation, and the greatest success is confidence, or perfect understanding between two people.
the best possible way to prepare for tomorrow is to concentrate with all of your intelligence, all of your enthusiasm, on doing today's work superbly today.
the best preparation for tomorrow is doing your best today.
the best thing about the future is that it comes only one day at a time.
the best thinking has been done in solitude. the worst has been done in turmoil.
the best way to cheer yourself up is to try to cheer somebody else up.
the best way to find out if you can trust somebody is to trust them.
the best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.
the best way to predict the future is to create it.
the best years of your life are the ones in which you decide your problems are your own.
the biggest coward is a man who awakens a woman's love with no intention of loving her.
the biggest risk is not taking one.
the boy never cried again, and he never forgot what he'd learned, that to love is to destroy, and that to be loved is to be the one destroyed.
the bravest people are the ones who don't mind looking like cowards.
the cake is a lie.
the cave you fear to enter holds the treasure that you seek.
the chinese use two brush strokes to write the word crisis. one brush stroke stands for danger, the other for opportunity. in a crisis, be aware of the danger but recognize the opportunity.
the compensation for dying is that i will learn all the things i was not able to learn here on earth.
the day the child realizes that all adults are imperfect, he becomes an adolescent, the day he forgives them, he becomes an adult, the day he forgives himself, he becomes wise.
the definition of success, to laugh much, to win respect of intelligent persons and the affections of children, to earn the approbation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends, to appreciate beauty, to find the best in others, to give one's self, to leave the world a little better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition., to have played and laughed with enthusiasm, and sung with exultation, to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived this is to have succeeded.
the desire for safety stands against every great and noble enterprise.
the devil doesn't come dressed in a red cape and pointy horns. he comes as everything you've ever wished for.
the devil reminded me of my past, so i had to remind him of my future.
the dictionary is the only place that success comes before work. hard work is the price we must pay for success. i think you can accomplish anything if you're willing to pay the price.
the difference between genius and stupidity is, genius has its limits.
the difference between sex and death is, with death you can do it alone and nobody's going to make fun of you.
the difference between stupidity and genius is that genius has its limits.
the difference between the almost right word and the right word is really a large matter. tis the difference between the lightning bug and the lightning.
the doors of wisdom are never shut.
the doorstep to the temple of wisdom is a knowledge of our own ignorance.
the dream is the small hidden door in the deepest and most intimate sanctum of the soul, which opens to that primeval cosmic night that was soul long before there was conscious ego and will be soul far beyond what a conscious ego could ever reach.
the earth provides enough to satisfy every man's needs, but not every man's greed.
the easiest way to solve a problem is to deny it exists.
the emotion that can break your heart is sometimes the very one that heals it.
the end justifies the means. but what if there never is an end. all we have is means.
the essence of the beautiful is unity in variety.
the fact that someone else loves you doesn't rescue you from the project of loving yourself.
the fact that we live at the bottom of a deep gravity well, on the surface of a gas covered planet going around a nuclear fireball 90 million miles away and think this to be normal is obviously some indication of how skewed our perspective tends to be.
the family is one of nature's greatest masterpieces.
the fault, dear brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves.
the fear of death follows from the fear of life. a man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.
the fellow who thinks he knows it all is especially annoying to those of us who do.
the fight is won or lost far away from the witnesses, behind the lines, in the gym, and out there on the road, long before i dance under those lights.
the fire that warms us can also consume us, it is not the fault of the fire.
the first draft is nothing more than a starting point, so be wrong as fast as you can.
the first draft of anything is shit.
the first step to getting the things you want out of life is this, decide what you want.
the first thing to know about the supernatural is that it never appears when it will be incredibly well documented.
the first time someone shows you who they are, believe them.
the first to apologize is the bravest. the first to forgive is the strongest. the first to forget is the happiest.
the first truth is that the liberty of a democracy is not safe if the people tolerate the growth of private power to a point where it becomes stronger than their democratic state itself.
the flower that blooms in adversity is the rarest and most beautiful of all.
the fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
the future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.
the future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is.
the goal of abolishing the white race is, on its face, so desirable that some may find it hard to believe that it could incur any opposition other than from committed white supremacists.
the goal of life is living in agreement with nature.
the good old days weren't always good, and tomorrow ain't as bad as it seems.
the great advantage about telling the truth is that nobody ever believes it.
the great use of a life is to spend for something that outlasts it.
the greater the love, the greater the tragedy when it's over.
the greatest danger for most of us is not that our aim is too high and we miss it, but that it is too low and we reach it.
the greatest gift you can give someone is your time. because when you give your time, you are giving a portion of your life that you will never get back.
the greatest happiness is to know the source of unhappiness.
the greatest mistake you can make in life is to be continually fearing you will make one.
the greatest test of courage on earth is to bear defeat without losing heart.
the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. what we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly. tis dearness only that gives everything its value.
the heart was made to be broken.
the heaviest thing in the world is the coffin of the child, on the shoulders of a father.
the heights by great men reached and kept, were not obtained by sudden flight. but they, while their companions slept, were toiling upward in the night.
the hero says there is good in me and there is bad in me. i have to suppress the bad and magnify the good. the villain says there is only good in me.
the heroes have to win every time. the villain only has to win once.
the highest form of wisdom is to get drunk and go to pieces.
the human brain starts working the moment you are born and never stops until you stand up to speak in public.
the human heart is like a night bird. silently waiting for something, and when the time comes, it flies straight toward it.
the idea is that not only the king but everyone should keep his hard earned money confidentially and secretly so that in due course of time the money can be spent for good, practical purposes,.
the idea of comedy, really, is not everybody should be laughing. it should be about 50 people laughing, and 50 people horrified.
the illiterate of the 21st century will not be those who cannot read and write, but those who cannot learn, unlearn, and relearn.
the important thing is never to stop questioning.
the important thing is not to stop questioning.
the individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe. if you try it, you will be lonely often, and sometimes frightened. but no price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself.
the internet is a great thing, because it reminds you that you are quite sane.
the journey is the reward.
the journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
the key to immortality is first living a life worth remembering.
the ladder of success is best climbed by stepping on the rungs of opportunity.
the lessons this life has planted in my heart pertain more to caring than crops, more to golden rule than gold, more to the proper choice than to the popular choice.
the light at the end of the tunnel is not an illusion, the tunnel is.
the line between failure and success is so fine that we scarcely know when we pass it, so fine that we are often on the line and do not know it.
the line of code you don't write is the line of code you never have to debug.
the loneliest moment in someone's life is when they are watching their whole world fall apart, and all they can do is stare blankly.
the loneliest people are the kindest. the saddest people smile the brightest. the most damaged people are the wisest. all because they do not wish to see anyone else suffer the way they do.
the love that is not shown does not deserve to argue about its existence.
the man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies but also to hate his friends.
the man who acquires the ability to take full possession of his own mind may take possession of anything else to which he is justly entitled.
the man who carries a cat by the tail learns something that can be learned in no other way.
the man who does not read has no advantage over the man who cannot read.
the man who doesn't read good books has no advantage over the man who can't read them.
the man who never makes a mistake always takes orders from one who does.
the man who offers an insult writes it in sand, but for the man who receives it, it's chiseled in bronze.
the man who views the world at 50 the same as he did at 20 has wasted 30 years of his life.
the meaning of life is to find your gift. the purpose of life is to give it away.
the meek may inherit the earth, but at the moment it belongs to the conceited. like me.
the meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical substances, if there is any reaction, both are transformed.
the mind does not create what it perceives, any more than the eye creates the rose.
the mind is not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled.
the mintage of wisdom is to know that rest is rust, and that real life is in love, laughter, and work.
the moment we want to believe something, we suddenly see all the arguments for it, and become blind to the arguments against it.
the moments of happiness we enjoy take us by surprise. it is not that we seize them, but that they seize us.
the moments of the past do not remain still, they retain in our memory the motion which drew them towards the future, towards a future which has itself become the past, and draw us on in their train.
the more i know of the world, the more i am convinced that i shall never see a man whom i can really love. i require so much.
the more i learn about human nature, the more i like my dog.
the more i read, the more i acquire, the more certain i am that i know nothing.
the more i see, the less i know for sure.
the more i study the world, the more i am convinced of the inability of brute force to create anything durable.
the more that a nation knows about the mode of conducting is business, the better chance has that business of being properly conducted.
the more that you read, the more things you will know. the more that you learn, the more places you'll go.
the more we value things, the less we value ourselves.
the more you fail, the more capable you become.
the most beautiful experience we can have is the mysterious. it is the fundamental emotion that stands at the cradle of true art and true science.
the most beautiful people we have known are those who have known defeat, known suffering, known struggle, known loss, and have found their way out of the depths. these persons have an appreciation, a sensitivity, and an understanding of life that fills them with compassion, gentleness, and a deep loving concern. beautiful people do not just happen.
the most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. it is the source of all true art and all science. he to whom this emotion is a stranger, who can no longer pause to wonder and stand rapt in awe, is as good as dead, his eyes are closed.
the most common lies are the ones you tell yourself, lying to others is, relatively seen, an exception.
the most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don't have any.
the most courageous act is still to think for yourself. aloud.
the most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not eureka. but that's funny, .when you're happy, you enjoy the music. but when you're sad, you understand the lyrics.
the most important decisions are the things you decide not to do.
the most important kind of freedom is to be what you really are. you trade in your reality for a role. you trade in your sense for an act. you give up your ability to feel, and in exchange, put on a mask. there can't be any large scale revolution until there's a personal revolution, on an individual level. it's got to happen inside first.
the most important single ingredient in the formula of success is knowing how to get along with people.
the most important thing is to enjoy your life to be happy it's all that matters.
the most important thing we ever learn at school is the fact that the most important things can't be learned at school.
the most important things are the hardest to say because words diminish them.
the most important things are the hardest to say, because words diminish them.
the most important things are the hardest to say. they are the things you get ashamed of, because words diminish them words shrink things that seemed limitless when they were in your head to no more than living size when they're brought out. but it's more than that, isn't it. the most important things lie too close to wherever your secret heart is buried, like landmarks to a treasure your enemies would love to steal away. and you may make revelations that cost you dearly only to have people look at you in a funny way, not understanding what you've said at all, or why you thought it was so important that you almost cried while you were saying it. that's the worst, i think. when the secret stays locked within not for want of a teller but for want of an understanding ear.
the most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too.
the most powerful weapon on earth is the human soul on fire.
the most terrifying fact about the universe is not that it is hostile but that it is indifferent, but if we can come to terms with this indifference, then our existence as a species can have genuine meaning. however vast the darkness, we must supply our own light.
the most wasted of all days is one without laughter.
the mud don't care who it gets on.
the nice thing about standards is, there are so many to choose from.
the nicest thing for me is sleep, then at least i can dream.
the old believe everything, the middle aged suspect everything, the young know everything.
the older i grow the more i distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom.
the one thing that doesn't abide by majority rule is a person's conscience.
the one thing we can never get enough of is love. and the one thing we never give enough of is love.
the one who follows the crowd will usually go no further than the crowd. those who walk alone are likely to find themselves in places no one has ever been before.
the one you love and the one who loves you are never, ever the same person.
the only fool bigger than the person who knows it all is the person who argues with him.
the only man who behaves sensibly is my tailor, he takes my measurements anew every time he sees me, while all the rest go on with their old measurements and expect me to fit them.
the only mistake in life is the lesson not learned.
the only people who don't make mistakes are the people who don't do anything.
the only person who is educated is the one who has learned how to learn and change.
the only reason for time is so that everything doesn't happen at once.
the only thing worse than a boy who hates you, a boy that loves you.
the only thing worse than being blind is to have sight, and no vision.
the only time you should look in your neighbor's bowl is to make sure that they have enough. you don't look in your neighbor's bowl to see if you have as much as them.
the only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.
the only way out of the labyrinth of suffering is to forgive.
the only way to do great work is to love what you do. if you haven't found it yet, keep looking. don't settle.
the only way to find true happiness is to risk being completely cut open.
the only way to get through life is to laugh your way through it. you either have to laugh or cry. i prefer to laugh. crying gives me a headache.
the only way to have a friend is to be one.
the only way to maintain a moderate sum of happiness in this life, is not to worry about the future or regret the past too much.
the only way you learn is by failure.
the opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. the opposite of art is not ugliness, it's indifference. the opposite of faith is not heresy, it's indifference. and the opposite of life is not death, it's indifference.
the optimist thinks this is the best of all possible worlds. the pessimist fears it is true.
the pain of regret is far worse than the pain of discipline.
the passion of friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not asked to lend money.
the past is a ghost, the future a dream, and all we ever have is now.
the peaceful mind, the sedate self.
the people that are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones that do.
the person that you will spend the most time with in your life is yourself, so try to make yourself as interesting as possible.
the person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong.
the person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.
the pessimist complains about the wind, the optimist expects it to change, the realist adjusts the sails.
the present contains nothing more than the past, and what is found in the effect was already in the cause.
the prettiest dresses are worn to be taken off.
the price good men pay for indifference to public affairs is to be ruled by evil men.
the privilege of a lifetime is being who you are.
the problem in our country isn't with books being banned, but with people no longer reading. you don't have to burn books to destroy a culture. just get people to stop reading them.
the problem with the world is that the intelligent people are full of doubts, while the stupid ones are full of confidence.
the pure present is an ungraspable advance of the past devouring the future. in truth, all sensation is already memory.
the purpose of life is to fight maturity.
the quality of a leader is reflected in the standards they set for themselves.
the quieter you become the more you're able to hear.
the real lover is the man who can thrill you by kissing your forehead or smiling into your eyes or just staring into space.
the reason i don't worry about society is, nineteen people knocked down two buildings and killed thousands. hundreds of people ran into those buildings to save them. i'll take those odds every day.
the reason i talk to myself is because i'm the only one whose answers i accept.
the reason it hurts so much to separate is because our souls are connected.
the reason we all like to think so well of others is that we are all afraid for ourselves. the basis of optimism is sheer terror.
the reason we struggle with insecurity is because we compare our behind the scenes with everyone else's highlight reel.
the reputation of a thousand years may be determined by the conduct of one hour.
the road to success is paved with failure.
the roots below the earth claim no rewards for making the branches fruitful.
the saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.
the saddest thing about betrayal is that it never comes from your enemies.
the same wind that uproots trees makes the grass shine. the lordly wind loves the weakness and the lowness of grasses. never brag of being strong. the axe doesn't worry how thick the branches are. it cuts them to pieces. but not the leaves. it leaves the leaves alone.
the scariest moment is always just before you start.perhaps it's impossible to wear an identity without becoming what you pretend to be.
the sea is not less beautiful in our eyes because we know that sometimes ships are wrecked by it.
the second truth is that the liberty of a democracy is not safe if its business system does not provide employment and produce and distribute goods in such a way as to sustain an acceptable standard of living.
the secret of a good life is to have the right loyalties and hold them in the right scale of values.
the secret of being tiresome is to tell everything.
the secret of genius is to carry the spirit of the child into old age, which means never losing your enthusiasm.
the secret of happiness is low expectations.
the secret of health for both mind and body is not to mourn for the past, nor to worry about the future, but to live the present moment wisely and earnestly.
the secret of life is honesty and fair dealing. if you can fake that, you've got it made.
the secret of life, though, is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.
the secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.
the secret to all of this is sustainability.
the secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.
the secret to getting ahead is getting started.
the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of thinking we were at when we created them.
the silence depressed me. it wasn't the silence of silence. it was my own silence.
the simple things are also the most extraordinary things, and only the wise can see them.
the so called psychotically depressed person who tries to kill herself doesn't do so out of quote hopelessness or any abstract conviction that life's assets and debits do not square. and surely not because death seems suddenly appealing. the person in whom its invisible agony reaches a certain unendurable level will kill herself the same way a trapped person will eventually jump from the window of a burning high rise. make no mistake about people who leap from burning windows. their terror of falling from a great height is still just as great as it would be for you or me standing speculatively at the same window just checking out the view, i.e. the fear of falling remains a constant. the variable here is the other terror, the fire's flames, when the flames get close enough, falling to death becomes the slightly less terrible of two terrors. it's not desiring the fall, it's terror of the flames. and yet nobody down on the sidewalk, looking up and yelling don't. and hang on.', can understand the jump. not really. you'd have to have personally been trapped and felt flames to really understand a terror way beyond falling.
the solemn temples, the great globe itself, yes, all which it inherit, shall dissolve. and, like this insubstantial pageant faded, leave not a rack behind. we are such stuff, as dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep.
the sooner i finish it, the sooner i get it over with.
the soul becomes dyed with the color of its thoughts.
the soul is born old but grows young. that is the comedy of life. and the body is born young and grows old. that is life's tragedy.
the source of your happiness is solely within you. peacefulness has to be a decision that you make. it can exist in the middle of war, devastation, and catastrophe.
the spirit of the individual is determined by his dominating thought habits.
the statistics on sanity are that one out of every four people is suffering from a mental illness. look at your 3 best friends. if they're ok, then it's you.
the story of three men in the midst of drowning.
the story so far,in the beginning the universe was created. this has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move.
the successful warrior is the average man, with laser like focus.
the successful warrior is the average man, with laserlike focus.
the sudden disappointment of a hope leaves a scar which the ultimate fulfillment of that hope never entirely removes.
the supreme irony of life is that hardly anyone gets out of it alive.
the surest way of spoiling a pleasure is to start examining your satisfaction.
the surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently.
the surest way to work up a crusade in favor of some good cause is to promise people they will have a chance of maltreating someone.
the talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do well, and doing well whatever you do without thought of fame. if it comes at all it will come because it is deserved, not because it is sought after.
the test of a first rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function. one should, for example, be able to see that things are hopeless and yet be determined to make them otherwise.
the thing i'm most afraid of is me. of not knowing what i'm going to do. of not knowing what i'm doing right now.
the things that make you feel weird are the things that make you grow.
the things that will destroy us are: politics without principle, pleasure without conscience, wealth without work, knowledge without character, business without morality, science without humanity, and worship without sacrifice.
the things you do for yourself are gone when you are gone, but the things you do for others remain as your legacy.
the time which we have at our disposal every day is elastic, the passions we feel expand it, those that we inspire contract it, and habit fills up what remains.
the town was paper, but the memories were not.
the tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young.
the trouble is, you think you have time.
the trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist on coming along and trying to put things in it.
the true mark of maturity is when somebody hurts you and you try to understand their situation instead of trying to hurt them back.
the true meaning of life is to plant trees, under whose shade you do not expect to sit.
the true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination.
the truth does not change according to our ability to stomach it.
the truth is meant to shine, not hide.
the truth is rarely pure and never simple.
the truth is to be followed, not went away from. the truth is always true.
the truth is usually just an excuse for lack of imagination.
the truth is, everyone is going to hurt you. you just got to find the ones worth suffering for.
the truth is, unless you let go, unless you forgive yourself, unless you forgive the situation, unless you realize that the situation is over, you cannot move forward.
the truth will set you free, but first it will piss you off.
the two hardest things to say in life are hello for the first time and goodbye for the last.
the two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you find out why.
the ultimate mystery of being is beyond all categories of thought.
the unexamined life is not worth living.
the universe was exploding, each particle away from the next, hurtling us into dark and lonely space, eternally tearing us away from each other  child out of the womb, friend away from friend, moving from each other, each through his own pathway toward the goal box of solitary death.
the unreal is more powerful than the real. because nothing is as perfect as you can imagine it. because its only intangible ideas, concepts, beliefs, fantasies that last. stone crumbles. wood rots. people, well, they die. but things as fragile as a thought, a dream, a legend, they can go on and on. if you can change the way people think. the way they see themselves. the way they see the world. you can change the way people live their lives. that's the only lasting thing you can create.
the very essence of romance is uncertainty.
the very least you can do in your life is figure out what you hope for. and the most you can do is live inside that hope. not admire it from a distance but live right in it, under its roof.
the way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing.
the weak can never forgive. forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
the web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together.
the well bred contradict other people. the wise contradict themselves.
the whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser men so full of doubts.
the wicked man earns deceptive wages, but he who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.
the wise man always throws himself on the side of his assailants. it is more his interest than it is theirs to find his weak point.
the wise man does at once what the fool does finally.
the wise man does not lay up his own treasures. the more he gives to others, the more he has for his own.
the wise man learns more from the fool than the fool learns from the wise man.
the wise speak only of what they know.
the world as we have created it is a process of our thinking. it cannot be changed without changing our thinking.
the world breaks everyone, and afterward, many are strong at the broken places.
the world has so many lessons to teach you. i consider the world, our earth, to be like a school, and our life, the classrooms. sometimes on our planet life school, the lessons often come dressed up as detours and road blocks and sometimes as full blown crises. and the secret i've learned to getting ahead is being open to the lessons.
the world is a book and those who do not travel read only one page.
the world is big enough to satisfy everyones needs, but will always be too small to satisfy everyone's greed.
the world is full of suffering. it is also full of overcoming it.
the world is indeed full of peril, and in it there are many dark places, but still there is much that is fair, and though in all lands love is now mingled with grief, it grows perhaps the greater.
the world is not a wish granting factory.
the world is not comprehensible, but it is embraceable, through the embracing of one of its beings.
the world is not dangerous because of those who do harm but because of those who look at it without doing anything.
the world is not perfect, you need to find a place that is perfect for you.
the world is run by one million evil men, ten million stupid men, and a hundred million cowards.
the world is so full of people who are grabbing and self seeking. so the rare individual who unselfishly tries to serve others has an enormous advantage. he has little competition.
the world was hers for the reading.
the world we have created is a product of our thinking, it cannot be changed without changing our thinking.
the world will not be destroyed by those who do evil, but by those who watch them without doing anything.
the world won't care about your self esteem. the world will expect you to accomplish something before you feel good about yourself.
the world's mine oyster, which i with sword will open.
the worst invention in all of human history has been the invention of the clock. i would explain why this is true, but we're out of time.
the worst pain a man can suffer, to have insight into much and power over nothing.
the worst part of holding the memories is not the pain. it's the loneliness of it. memories need to be shared.
the worst thing the universe can do to a person is send them the love of their life at the wrong time.
the wound is the place where the light enters you.
the writer is the engineer of the human soul.
then, one stupid person, no different from any other stupid person, wanders into your stupid life, you give them a piece of you. they don't ask for it. they do something dumb one day like kiss you or smile at you, and then your life isn't your own anymore.
there are books that have devastated continents, destroyed thousands. what war hasn't been a war of fiction.
there are decades when nothing happens, and there are weeks when decades happen.
there are far, far better things ahead than any we leave behind.
there are few people whom i really love, and still fewer of whom i think well. the more i see of the world, the more am i dissatisfied with it, and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense.
there are four ways, and only four ways, in which we have contact with the world. we are evaluated and classified by these four contacts, what we do, how we look, what we say, and how we say it.
there are heights of the soul from which even tragedy ceases to look tragic.
there are no facts, only interpretations.
there are no faster or firmer friendships than those formed between people who love the same books.
there are no good girls gone wrong just bad girls found out.
there are no happy endings. endings are the saddest part, so just give me a happy middle, and a very happy start.
there are no limits. there are plateaus, but you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. if it kills you, it kills you. a man must constantly exceed his level.
there are no limits. there are plateaus, but you must not stay there. you must go beyond them. if it kills you, it kills you. a man must constantly exceed his level.
there are only two tragedies in life, one is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.
there are only two ways to live your life. one is as though nothing is a miracle. the other is as though everything is a miracle.
there are people you havn't met yet who will love you.
there are three ingredients in the good life, learning, earning and yearning.
there are three rules for writing a novel. unfortunately, no one knows what they are.
there are three things all wise men fear, the sea in storm, a night with no moon, and the anger of a gentle man.
there are three types of lies lies, damn lies, and statistics.
there are too many books i haven't read, too many places i haven't seen, too many memories i haven't kept long enough.
there are two basic motivating forces, fear and love. when we are afraid, we pull back from life. when we are in love, we open to all that life has to offer with passion, excitement, and acceptance. we need to learn to love ourselves first, in all our glory and our imperfections. if we cannot love ourselves, we cannot fully open to our ability to love others or our potential to create. evolution and all hopes for a better world rest in the fearlessness and open hearted vision of people who embrace life.
there are two distinct classes of what are called thoughts, those that we produce in ourselves by reflection and the act of thinking and those that bolt into the mind of their own accord.
there are two kinds of failures, those who thought and never did, and those who did and never thought.
there are two motives for reading a book, one, that you enjoy it, the other, that you can boast about it.
there are two primary choices in life, to accept conditions as they exist, or accept the responsibility for changing them.
there are two reasons why we don't trust people. one, we don't know them. two, we know them.
there are two ways to live, you can live as if nothing is a miracle, you can live as if everything is a miracle.
there are two ways to slide easily through life, to believe everything or to doubt everything, both ways save us from thinking.
there are worse crimes than burning books. one of them is not reading them.
there are worse things than being alone but it often takes decades to realize this and most often when you do it's too late and there's nothing worse than too late.
there are wounds that never show on the body that are deeper and more hurtful than anything that bleeds.
there can be no liberty for a community which lacks the means by which to detect lies.
there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular, but he must take it because conscience tells him it is right.
there comes a time when the world gets quiet and the only thing left is your own heart. so you'd better learn the sound of it. otherwise you'll never understand what it's saying.
there have been tyrants, and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible, but in the end they always fall. think of it always.
there is a battle of two wolves inside us all.
there is a great joy in the realization that one does not actually need anything at all to be happy.
there is a kind of happiness and wonder that makes you serious. it is too good to waste on jokes.
there is a loneliness in this world so great that you can see it in the slow movement of the hands of a clock. people so tired mutilated either by love or no love. people just are not good to each other one on one. the rich are not good to the rich, the poor are not good to the poor, we are afraid, our educational system tells us that we can all be winners.
there is a pleasure in the pathless woods, there is a rapture on the lonely shore, there is society, where none intrudes. by the deep sea, and music in it's roar, i love not the man less, but nature more.
there is a theory which states that if ever anyone discovers exactly what the universe is for and why it is here, it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. there is another theory which states that this has already happened.
there is always some madness in love. but there is also always some reason in madness.
there is an expiry date on blaming your parents for steering you in the wrong direction.
there is more to life than increasing its speed.
there is never a time or place for true love. it happens accidentally, in a heartbeat, in a single flashing, throbbing moment.
there is no cosmetic for beauty like happiness.
there is no expedient to which a man will not go to avoid the labor of thinking.
there is no friend as loyal as a book.
there is no greater agony than bearing an untold story inside you.
there is no greater danger than playing it safe.
there is no king who has not had a slave among his ancestors, and no slave who has not had a king among his.
there is no lonelier man in death, except the suicide, than that man who has lived many years with a good wife and then outlived her. if two people love each other there can be no happy end to it.
there is no medium for psychology to reflect itself in, it can only portray itself in itself, and describe itself.
there is no mistaking a real book when one meets it. it is like falling in love.
there is no real ending. it's just the place where you stop the story.
there is no surer foundation for a beautiful friendship than a mutual taste in literature.
there is no tomorrow, there is only a planet turning in its axis and a creature given to optimistic fancies.
there is no virtue in ignorance.
there is not always a good guy. nor is there always a bad one. most people are somewhere in between.
there is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
there is nothing good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
there is nothing i would not do for those who are really my friends. i have no notion of loving people by halves, it is not my nature.
there is nothing impossible to him who will try.
there is nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious as laughter and good humor.
there is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man, true nobility is being superior to your former self.
there is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man. true nobility lies in being superior to your former self.
there is nothing to writing. all you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed.
there is only one class in the community that thinks more about money than the rich, and that is the poor. the poor can think of nothing else.
there is only one success to be able to spend your life in your own way.
there is only one thing that makes a dream impossible to achieve, the fear of failure.
there is some good in this world, and it's worth fighting for.
there is time for everything.
there was nowhere to go but everywhere, so just keep on rolling under the stars.
there's a difference between loving the idea of someone and actually loving who they really are.
there's a fine line between genius and insanity. i have erased this line.
there's no excuse to be bored. sad, yes. angry, yes. depressed, yes. crazy, yes. but there's no excuse for boredom, ever.
there's no present. there's only the immediate future and the recent past.
there's nothing i find more boring than arguing with someone because they want to use their idea instead of the right idea.
there's nothing like deep breaths after laughing that hard. nothing in the world like a sore stomach for the right reasons.
there's plenty of sense in nonsense sometimes, if you wish to look for it.
these days you are considered a weirdo if you live without a phone. yet nobody cares if you live without a purpose. anything wrong with that picture.
these woods are lovely, dark and deep,but i have promises to keep, and miles to go before i sleep, and miles to go before i sleep.
they always say time changes things, but you actually have to change them yourself.
they didn't agree on much. in fact, they didn't agree on anything. they fought all the time and challenged each other ever day. but despite their differences, they had one important thing in common. they were crazy about each other.
they love their hair because they're not smart enough to love something more interesting.
they proved that if you quit smoking, it will prolong your life. what they haven't proved is that a prolonged life is a good thing. i haven't seen the stats on that yet.
they say a person needs just three things to be truly happy in this world, someone to love, something to do, and something to hope for.
they say don't read a book by it's a cover, but the real problem is most people are blind.
they say time heals all wounds, but then why the fuck i still got all these scars.
they say when you are missing someone that they are probably feeling the same, but i don't think it's possible for you to miss me as much as i'm missing you right now.
they say, sarcasm is a metric for potential.
they told me to wish big, so i wished to be little again.
they've promised that dreams can come true, but forgot to mention that nightmares are dreams, too.
things change. and friends leave. life doesn't stop for anybody.
things don't have to change the world to be important.
things we lose have a way of coming back to us in the end, if not always in the way we expect.
things work out best for those who make the best of how things work out.
think before you speak. read before you think.
think left and think right and think low and think high. oh, the thinks you can think up if only you try.
think lightly of yourself and deeply of the world.
think of a person of average intelligence, and then realize half of the country is more stupid than that idiot.
think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.
think of all the beauty that's still left in and around you, and be happy.
think, every day, something no one else is thinking.
thinking is more precious than all five senses.
thinking is the hardest work there is, which is the probable reason why so few engage in it.
thinking, the talking of the soul with itself.
this guy's walking down a street when he falls in a hole.
this is slavery, not to speak one's thought.
this is the problem i want to have.
this life is what you make it. no matter what, you're going to mess up sometimes, it's a universal truth. but the good part is you get to decide how you're going to mess it up. girls will be your friends they'll act like it anyway. but just remember, some come, some go. the ones that stay with you through everything they're your true best friends. don't let go of them. also remember, sisters make the best friends in the world. as for lovers, well, they'll come and go too. and baby, i hate to say it, most of them actually pretty much all of them are going to break your heart, but you can't give up because if you give up, you'll never find your soulmate. you'll never find that half who makes you whole and that goes for everything. just because you fail once, doesn't mean you're gonna fail at everything. keep trying, hold on, and always, always, always believe in yourself, because if you don't, then who will, sweetie. so keep your head high, keep your chin up, and most importantly, keep smiling, because life's a beautiful thing and there's so much to smile about.
this life's hard, but it's harder if you're stupid.
this moment contains all moments.
this moment will just be another story someday.
this report, by its very length, defends itself against the risk of being read.
this world is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.
those are my principles. if you don't like them i have others.
those were the best years of our lives.
those who are heartless once cared too much.
those who are preoccupied with making a statement usually dont have any statements worth making.
those who believe in telekinetics, raise my hand.
those who believe they are exclusively in the right are generally those who achieve something.
those who bring sunshine to the lives of others, cannot keep it from themselves.
those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.
those who criticize this generation forget who raised it.
those who dance are considered insane by those who can't hear the music.
those who do not move, do not notice their chains.
those who don't believe in magic will never find it.
those who don't read the newspaper are uninformed. those who do read the newspaper are misinformed.
those who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night.
those who find ugly meanings in beautiful things are corrupt without being charming. this is a fault. those who find beautiful meanings in beautiful things are the cultivated. for these there is hope. they are the elect to whom beautiful things mean only beauty. there is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. books are well written, or badly written. that is all.
those who have hunted armed men long enough and liked it, never really care for anything else thereafter.
those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.
those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.
those who say it can not be done, should not interrupt those doing it.
those will be thy best friends, not to whom thou hast done good, but who have done good to thee.
though nobody can go back and make a new beginning. anyone can start over and make a new ending.
thoughts on this quote.
thousand of candles can be lighted from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. happiness never decreases by being shared.
three grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.
three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead.
three things in human life are important, the first is to be kind, the second is to be kind, and the third is to be kind.
three things to keep private. love life, income and next move.
time flies like an arrow, fruit flies like a banana.
time has been transformed, and we have changed, it has advanced and set us in motion, it has unveiled its face, inspiring us with bewilderment and exhilaration.
time is a drug. too much of it kills you.
time is a great teacher, but unfortunately it kills all its pupils.
time is how you spend your love.
time is just something we invented to make motion seem simple.
time is money.
time is too slow for those who wait, too swift for those who fear, too long for those who grieve, too short for those who rejoice, but for those who love, time is eternity.
time makes more converts than reason.
time passes, and little by little everything that we have spoken in falsehood becomes true.
time takes it all, whether you want it to or not. time takes it all, time bears it away, and in the end there is only darkness. sometimes we find others in that darkness, and sometimes we lose them there again.
time you enjoy wasting is not wasted time.
time, which changes people, does not alter the image we have retained of them.
times have not become more violent. they have just become more televised.
tis better to have loved and lostthan never to have loved at all.
to be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates.
to be absolutely certain about something, one must know everything or nothing about it.
to be awake is to be alive.
to be nobody but yourself in a world which is doing its best day and night to make you like everybody else means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight and never stop fighting.
to be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment.
to believe in something, and not to live it, is dishonest.
to burn with desire and keep quiet about it is the greatest punishment we can bring on ourselves.
to choose doubt as a philosophy of life is akin to choosing immobility as a means of transportation.
to conquer fear is the beginning of wisdom.
to dare is to lose one's footing momentarily. to not dare is to lose oneself.
to define is to limit.
to describe my mother would be to write about a hurricane in its perfect power.
to do something well is so worthwhile, that to die trying to do it better cannot be foolhardy.
to find yourself, think for yourself.
to go wrong in one's own way is better than to go right in someone else's.
to laugh often and much, to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children to leave the world a better place to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. this is to have succeeded.
to live is the rarest thing in the world. most people exist, that is all.
to live would be an awfully big adventure.
to love at all is to be vulnerable. love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. if you want to make sure of keeping it intact you must give it to no one, not even an animal. wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries, avoid all entanglements. lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness. but in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will change. it will not be broken, it will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. to love is to be vulnerable.
to love. to be loved. to never forget your own insignificance. to never get used to the unspeakable violence and the vulgar disparity of life around you. to seek joy in the saddest places. to pursue beauty to its lair. to never simplify what is complicated or complicate what is simple. to respect strength, never power. above all, to watch. to try and understand. to never look away. and never, never to forget.
to me, fearless is not the absence of fear. it's not being completely unafraid. to me, fearless is having fears. fearless is having doubts. lots of them. to me, fearless is living in spite of those things that scare you to death.
to rephrase tolstoy's famous line, all happiness is alike, but each pain is painful in its own way.
to succeed, jump as quickly at opportunities as you do at conclusions.
to succeed, we must first believe that we can.
to the world, you may be one person, but to one person, you may be the world.
to think is to differ.
to those who have given up on love, i say, trust life a little bit.
to try to be like another is to shrivel our soul.
today a reader, tomorrow a leader.
today a young man on acid realized that all matter is merely energy condensed to a slow vibration, that we are all one consciousness experiencing itself subjectively, there is no such thing as death, life is only a dream, and we are the imagination of ourselves.
today i shall behave, as if this is the day i will be remembered.
today is your day. your mountain is waiting, so get on your way.
today is your own. tomorrow perchance may never come.
today was good. today was fun. tomorrow is another one.
today you are you, that is truer than true. there is no one alive who is youer than you.
tolerance can't include hating people you think are intolerant. it's about how your beliefs lead you to treat those people.
toleration is the greatest gift of the mind, it requires the same effort of the brain that it takes to balance oneself on a bicycle.
tomorrow is the first blank page of a 365 page book. write a good one.
too bad all the people who know how to run this country are busy running taxicabs or cutting hair.
tradition means giving votes to the most obscure of all classes, our ancestors. it is the democracy of the dead. tradition refuses to submit to that arrogant oligarchy who merely happen to be walking around.
trouble shared is trouble halved.
true freedom comes when you can accept others exactly as they are, no matter what.
true friends stab you in the front.
true friendship comes when the silence between two people is comfortable.
true friendship multiplies the good in life and divides its evils. strive to have friends, for life without friends is like life on a desert island. to find one real friend in a lifetime is good fortune, to keep him is a blessing.
true love doesn't happen right away; it's an ever.
true love is rare, and it's the only thing that gives life real meaning.
true terror is to wake up one morning and realize that your high school class is running the country.
true wisdom comes to each of us when we realize how little we understand about life, ourselves, and the world around us.
trust is not needing to know everything.
trust those who seek the truth, and doubt those who say they have found it.
trust yourself. you know more than you think you do.
truth is one, the sages speak of it by many names.
truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities, truth isn't.
truth is, everybody is going to hurt you. you just gotta find the one's worth suffering for.
truth never damages a cause that is just.
try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of value.
try not to become a man of success. rather become a man of value.
try to be a rainbow in someone's cloud.
turn your wounds into wisdom.
twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. so throw off the bowlines. sail away from the safe harbor. catch the trade winds in your sails. explore. dream. discover.
twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn't do than by the ones you did. so throw off the bowlines, sail away from the safe harbor. catch the trade winds in your sails. explore. dream.
two people in love, alone, isolated from the world, that's beautiful.
two possibilities exist, either we are alone in the universe or we are not. both are equally terrifying.
two roads diverged in a wood, and i took the one less traveled by, and that has made all the difference.
two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and i'm not sure about the universe.
two wrongs don't make a right, but they make a good excuse.
tyranny cannot defeat the power of ideas.
ultimately the bond of all companionship, whether in marriage or in friendship, is conversation.
under pressure you don't rise to the occasion, you sink to the level of your training. that's why we train so hard.
understanding is the first step to acceptance, and only with acceptance can there be recovery.
unfortunately, the clock is ticking, the hours are going by. the past increases, the future recedes. possibilities decreasing, regrets mounting.
unless it's mad, passionate, extraordinary love, it's a waste of your time. there are too many mediocre things in life, love shouldn't be one of them.
unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing is going to get better. it's not.
unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing's going to get better, it's not.
unthinking respect for authority is the greatest enemy of truth.
until i feared i would lose it, i never loved to read. one does not love breathing.
until we invent telepathy, books are our best choice for understanding the rest of humanity.
use what talents you possess, the woods will be very silent if no birds sang there except those that sang best.
useless laws weaken necessary laws.
vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. a person may be proud without being vain. pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.
vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.
waiting for the fish to bite or waiting for wind to fly a kite. or waiting around for friday night or waiting perhaps for their uncle jake or a pot to boil or a better break or a string of pearls or a pair of pants or a wig with curls or another chance. everyone is just waiting.
waiting is painful. forgetting is painful. but not knowing which to do is the worst kind of suffering.
walk as if you are kissing the earth with your feet.
walk through life eager and open to self improvement and that which is going to best help you evolve, because that's really why were here, to evolve as human beings.
walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light.
wandering is super important, because thinking you know exactly where you're going is a kind of lack of humility that doesn't let you invent.
war is peace.freedom is slavery. ignorance is strength.
war is what happens when language fails.
war is when your government tells you who the enemy is, revolution is when you figure it out for yourself.
war must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who would devour all, but i do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. i love only that which they defend.
watch your thoughts, they become words. watch your words, they become actions. watch your actions, they become habits. watch your habits, they become character. watch your character, it becomes your destiny.
watching political commercials is hazardous to the political health of the community.
water is the softest thing, yet it can penetrate mountains and earth. this shows clearly the principle of softness overcoming hardness.
we accept the love we think we deserve.
we accept the reality of the world with which we are presented.
we act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of life, when all that we need to make us happy is something to be enthusiastic about.
we all die. the goal isn't to live forever, the goal is to create something that will.
we all have our time machines, don't we. those that take us back are memories.and those that carry us forward, are dreams.
we all have time to either spend or waste and it is our decision what to do with it. but once passed, it is gone forever.
we all know we're no good pieces of shit from the time we could breathe, after a while you just kind of become bad.
we always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next ten.
we always romanticize that our elders are wise because of their years of experience. but you know what. stupid people get old too.
we are all a little weird and life's a little weird, and when we find someone whose weirdness is compatible with ours, we join up with them and fall in mutual weirdness and call it love.
we are all born ignorant, but one must work hard to remain stupid.
we are all broken. that's how the light gets in.
we are all dying, every moment that passes of every day. that is the inescapable truth of this existence.
we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.
we are all lone souls. it pays to know humility, lest the delusion of control, of mastery, overwhelms. and, indeed, we seem a species prone to that delusion, again and ever again.
we are captives of our own identities, living in prisons of our own creation.
we are cups, constantly and quietly being filled. the trick is, knowing how to tip ourselves over and let the beautiful stuff out.
we are discreet sheep, we wait to see how the drove is going, and then go with the drove.
we are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star. but we can understand the universe. that makes us something very special.
we are made wise not by the recollection of our past, but by the responsibility for our future.
we are only as strong as we are united, as weak as we are divided.
we are the first generation to feel the impact of climate change and the last generation that can do something about it.
we are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be.
we ask 18 year olds to make huge decisions about their career and financial future, when a month ago they had to ask to go to the bathroom.
we become what we think about all day long. the question is, what do you think about.
we believe in ordinary acts of bravery, in the courage that drives one person to stand up for another.and, when you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you to achieve it.
we buy things we don't need with money we don't have to impress people we don't like.
we call that person who has lost his father, an orphan, and a widower that man who has lost his wife. but that man who has known the immense unhappiness of losing a friend, by what name do we call him. here every language is silent and holds its peace in impotence.
we can complain because rose bushes have thorns or rejoice because thorn bushes have roses.
we can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark, the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light.
we can forgive a man for making a useful thing as long as he does not admire it. the only excuse for making a useless thing is that one admires it intensely. all art is quite useless.
we cannot have a world where everyone is a victim. i'm this way because my father made me this way. i'm this way because my husband made me this way. yes, we are indeed formed by traumas that happen to us. but you must take charge, you must take over, you are responsible.
we cannot solve our problems with the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.
we cannot, in a moment, get rid of habits of a lifetime.
we cant control everything that happens to us, but we can control how we respond to things we cant control.
we delight in the beauty of the butterfly, but rarely admit the changes it has gone through to achieve that beauty.
we do not need magic to transform our world. we carry all the power we need inside ourselves already.
we don't inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.
we don't need superheroes, we only need good people to stand against bad.
we don't receive wisdom, we must discover it for ourselves after a journey that no one can take for us or spare us.
we don't see things as they are, we see them as we are.
we dont care about the nameless gray faces were playing right now. this is man versus himself.
we fell in love, despite our differences, and once we did, something rare and beautiful was created. for me, love like that has only happened once, and that's why every minute we spent together has been seared in my memory. i'll never forget a single moment of it.
we hate some persons because we do not know them, and we will not know them because we hate them.
we have it in our power to begin the world over again.
we have the marvelous gift of making everything insignificant.
we have to allow ourselves to be loved by the people who really love us, the people who really matter. too much of the time, we are blinded by our own pursuits of people to love us, people that don't even matter, while all that time we waste and the people who do love us have to stand on the sidewalk and watch us beg in the streets. it's time to put an end to this. it's time for us to let ourselves be loved.
we have to continually be jumping off cliffs and developing our wings on the way down.
we have to dare to be ourselves, however frightening or strange that self may prove to be.
we have to do more than just elect a new president if we truly want to change this country.
we humans have lost the wisdom of genuinely resting and relaxing. we worry too much. we don't allow our bodies to heal, and we don't allow our minds and hearts to heal.
we judge ourselves by our intentions and others by their behavior.
we know no spectacle so ridiculous as the british public in one of its periodical fits of morality.
we know what we are, but not what we may be.
we live and breathe words. it was books that made me feel that perhaps i was not completely alone. they could be honest with me, and i with them. reading your words, what you wrote, how you were lonely sometimes and afraid, but always brave, the way you saw the world, its colors and textures and sounds, i felt i felt the way you thought, hoped, felt, dreamt. i felt i was dreaming and thinking and feeling with you. i dreamed what you dreamed, wanted what you wanted and then i realized that truly i just wanted you.
we live for books.
we live in a decaying age. young people no longer respect their parents. they are rude and impatient. they frequently inhabit taverns and have no self control.
we live in a society exquisitely dependent on science and technology, in which hardly anyone knows anything about science and technology.
we live, in fact, in a world starved for solitude, silence, and private, and therefore starved for meditation and true friendship.
we love the things we love for what they are.
we loved with a love that was more than love.
we make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.
we make a living by what we get, we make a life by what we give.
we may encounter many defeats. but we must not be defeated.
we may not be perfect, but the safest hands are still our own.
we met for a reason, either you're a blessing or a lesson.
we must accept finite disappointment, but never lose infinite hope.
we must all suffer from one of two pains, the pain of discipline or the pain of regret. the difference is discipline weighs ounces while regret weighs tons.
we must always take sides. neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.
we must be willing to get rid of the life we've planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us.
we must guard everyone's liberty, or we could lose our own. if we allow any minority to lose its freedom by persecution or by prejudice, we are threatening our own freedom, and this is not simply an idea, this is good hard common sense.
we must hurt in order to grow, fail in order to know, and lose in order to gain. because some lessons in life, are best learned through pain.
we must let go of the life we have planned, so as to accept the one that is waiting for us.
we must never be afraid to go too far, for success lies just beyond.
we must use time as a tool, not as a crutch.
we must walk consciously only part way toward our goal, and then leap in the dark to our success.
we never really get rid of problems in life,as our role changes we just get its own set of problems its just how we deal with them that changes.
we plant seeds that will flower as results in our lives, so best to remove the weeds of anger, avarice, envy and doubt, that peace and abundance may manifest for all.
we read to know we're not alone.
we rise by lifting others.
we seem to be going through a period of nostalgia, and everyone seems to think yesterday was better than today. i don't think it was, and i would advise you not to wait ten years before admitting today was great. if you're hung up on nostalgia, pretend today is yesterday and just go out and have a great time.
we shall never know all the good that a simple smile can do.
we should all start to live before we get too old. fear is stupid. so are regrets.
we should be careful to get out of an experience only the wisdom that is in it and stop there, lest we be like the cat that sits down on a hot stove lid. she will never sit down on a hot stove lid again and that is well, but also she will never sit down on a cold one anymore.
we should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once.
we should not criticize those who trip by taking a more difficult than usual step.
we should not let our fears hold us back from pursuing our hopes.
we spend the first year of a child's life teaching it to walk and talk and the rest of its life to shut up and sit down.
we succeed in enterprises which demand the positive qualities we possess, but we excel in those which can also make use of our defects.
we take for granted the very things that most deserve our gratitude.
we tend to forget that happiness doesn't come as a result of getting something we dont have, but rather of recognizing and appreciating what we do have.
we think in generalities, but we live in details.
we think too much and feel too little. more than machinery, we need humanity. more than cleverness, we need kindness and gentleness. without these qualities, life would be violent, and all would be lost.
we walk alone in the world.
we want the facts to fit the preconceptions. when they don't, it is easier to ignore the facts than to change the preconceptions.
we weep for a birds cry, but not for a fish's blood. blessed are those with a voice.
we were together. i forget the rest.
we would never imagine that getting our heart's deepest desires might be the worst thing that can ever happen to us.
we write for the same reason that we walk, talk, climb mountains or swim the oceans, because we can. we have some impulse within us that makes us want to explain ourselves to other human beings.
we write to taste life twice, in the moment and in retrospect.
we'll settle this the old navy way the first one to die loses.
we're all a little weird. and life is a little weird. and when we find someone whose weirdness is compatible with ours, we join up with them and fall into mutually satisfying weirdness and call it love true love.
we're all going to die, all of us, what a circus. that alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. we are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.
we're all human, aren't we. every human life is worth the same, and worth saving.
weeds are flowers, too, once you get to know them.
welcome to the wonderful world of jealousy, he thought. for the price of admission, you get a splitting headache, a nearly irresistible urge to commit murder, and an inferiority complex. yippee.
well begun is half done.
well behaved women seldom make history.
well enough for old folks to rise early, because they have done so many mean things all their lives they can't sleep anyhow.
well the rain ain't fussy.
well, it seems to me that the best relationships the ones that last are frequently the ones that are rooted in friendship. you know, one day you look at the person and you see something more than you did the night before. like a switch has been flicked somewhere. and the person who was just a friend is. suddenly the only person you can ever imagine yourself with.
well, said pooh, what i like best, and then he had to stop and think. because although eating honey was a very good thing to do, there was a moment just before you began to eat it which was better than when you were, but he didn't know what it was called.
well, you killed all the funny people.
well, you see, aborigines don't own the land.they belong to it. it's like their mother. see those rocks. been standing there for 600 million years. still be there when you and i are gone. so arguing over who owns them is like two fleas arguing over who owns the dog they live on.
were all going to die, all of us, what a circus. that alone should make us love each other but it doesn't. we are terrorized and flattened by trivialities, we are eaten up by nothing.
what a treacherous thing to believe that a person is more than a person.
what an astonishing thing a book is. one glance at it and you're inside the mind of another person, maybe somebody dead for thousands of years. proof that humans are capable of working magic.
what are men to rocks and mountains.
what good is the warmth of summer, without the cold of winter to give it sweetness.
what happens after you die. lot's of things happen after you die they just don't involve you.
what i need is the dandelion in the spring. the bright yellow that means rebirth instead of destruction. the promise that life can go on, no matter how bad our losses. that it can be good again.
what i say is, a town isn't a town without a bookstore. it may call itself a town, but unless it's got a bookstore, it knows it's not fooling a soul.
what i want is to be needed. what i need is to be indispensable to somebody. who i need is somebody that will eat up all my free time, my ego, my attention. somebody addicted to me. a mutual addiction.
what is a cynic. a man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.
what is a friend. a single soul dwelling in two bodies.
what is a hero, other than an everyday guy who refuses to let anything beat him.
what is better to be born good, or to overcome your evil nature through great effort.
what is freedom of expression. without the freedom to offend, it ceases to exist.
what is happiness. the feeling that power is growing, that resistance is overcome.
what is love. i have met in the streets a very poor young man who was in love. his hat was old, his coat worn, the water passed through his shoes and the stars through his soul.
what is the point of being alive if you don't at least try to do something remarkable.
what lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.
what lies behind you and what lies in front of you, pales in comparison to what lies inside of you.
what luck for the rulers that men do not think.
what makes us men is that we can think logically. what makes us human is that we sometimes choose not to.
what matters in life is not what happens to you but what you remember and how you remember it.
what matters most is how well you walk through the fire.
what money can buy.
what once was thought can never be unthought.
what orators lack in depth they make up for in length.
what orwell failed to predict was that wed buy the cameras ourselves, and that our biggest fear would be that nobody was watching.if you can't intelligently argue for both sides of an issue, you don't understand the issue well enough to argue for either.
what really knocks me out is a book that, when you're all done reading it, you wish the author that wrote it was a terrific friend of yours and you could call him up on the phone whenever you felt like it. that doesn't happen much, though.
what sunshine is to flowers, smiles are to humanity. these are but trifles, to be sure, but scattered along life's pathway, the good they do is inconceivable.
what we are doing to the forests of the world is but a mirror reflection of what we are doing to ourselves and to one another.
what we are today comes from our thoughts of yesterday and our present thoughts build our life tomorrow. our life is the creation of our mind.
what we can or cannot do, what we consider possible or impossible, is rarely a function of our true capability. it is more likely a function of our beliefs about who we are.
what we have once enjoyed we can never lose. all that we love deeply becomes a part of us.
what weakens us is feeling offended by the deeds and misdeeds of our fellow men. our self importance requires that we spend most of our lives offended by someone.
what wisdom can you find that is greater than kindness.
what would men be without women. scarce, sir, mighty scarce.
what you do speaks so loudly that i cannot hear what you say.
what you do today is important because you are exchanging a day of your life for it.
what you do, the way you think, makes you beautiful.
what you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving your goals.
what you must understand about me is that i'm a deeply unhappy person.
what you see in others exists in you.
what you seek is seeking you.
what you're supposed to do when you don't like a thing is change it. if you can't change it, change the way you think about it. don't complain.
what, then, is time. if no one asks me, i know what it is. if i wish to explain it to him who asks, i do not know.
what's meant to be will always find a way.
whatever it is that you're trying to do with your life.
whatever it is you're seeking won't come in the form you're expecting.
whatever the cost of our libraries, the price is cheap compared to that of an ignorant nation.
whatever you are, be a good one.
whatever you do in life will be insignificant, but it is important that you do it, because nobody else will.
when 99 percent of people doubt your idea, you're either gravely wrong or about to make history.
when a father gives to his son, both laugh. when a son gives to his father, both cry.
when a friend is in trouble, don't annoy him by asking if there is anything you can do. think up something appropriate and do it.
when a man gives his opinion, he's a man. when a woman gives her opinion, she's a bitch.
when a man is denied the right to live the life he believes in, he has no choice but to become an outlaw.
when a man loves cats, i am his friend and comrade without further introduction.
when a person tells you that you hurt them, you don't get to decide that you didn't.
when adults say, teenagers think they are invincible with that sly, stupid smile on their faces, they don't know how right they are. we need never be hopeless, because we can never be irreparably broken. we think that we are invincible because we are. we cannot be born, and we cannot die. like all energy, we can only change shapes and sizes and manifestations. they forget that when they get old. they get scared of losing and failing. but that part of us greater than the sum of our parts cannot begin and cannot end, and so it cannot fail.
when all the world appears to be in a tumult, and nature itself is feeling the assault of climate change, the seasons retain their essential rhythm.
when all think alike, no one is thinking very much.
when angry, count to ten before you speak, if very angry, one hundred.
when art critics get together they talk about form and structure and meaning. when artists get together they talk about where you can buy cheap turpentine.
when dealing with people, let us remember we are not dealing with creatures of logic. we are dealing with creatures of emotion, creatures blistering with prejudices and motivated by pride and vanity.
when dealing with people, let us remember we are not dealing with creatures of logic. we are dealing with creatures of emotion, creatures bristling with prejudices and motivated by pride and vanity.
when everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it.
when faced with two choices, simply toss a coin. it works not because it settles the question for you, but because in that brief moment when the coin is in the air, you suddenly know what you are hoping for.
when i became a man i put away childish things, including the fear of childishness and the desire to be very grown up.
when i despair, i remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. there have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time, they can seem invincible, but in the end, they always fall. think of it always.
when i die, i want to die like my grandfather who died peacefully in his sleep. not screaming like all the passengers in his car.
when i discover who i am, i'll be free.
when i do good, i feel good. when i do bad, i feel bad. that's my religion.
when i examine myself and my methods of thought, i come to the conclusion that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than my talent for absorbing positive knowledge.
when i hear somebody sigh, life is hard, i am always tempted to ask, compared to what.
when i let go of what i am, i become what i might be.
when i look at my room, i see a girl who loves books.
when i lost my rifle, the army charged me 85 dollars. that is why in the navy the captain goes down with the ship.
when i was 5 years old, my mother always told me that happiness was the key to life. when i went to school, they asked me what i wanted to be when i grew up. i wrote down happy. they told me i didn't understand the assignment, and i told them they didn't understand life.
when i was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around. but when i got to be 21, i was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.
when i was a little girl i used to read fairy tales. in fairy tales you meet prince charming and he's everything you ever wanted. in fairy tales the bad guy is very easy to spot. the bad guy is always wearing a black cape so you always know who he is. then you grow up and you realize that prince charming is not as easy to find as you thought. you realize the bad guy is not wearing a black cape and he's not easy to spot, he's really funny, and he makes you laugh, and he has perfect hair.
when i was ten, i read fairy tales in secret and would have been ashamed if i had been found doing so. now that i am fifty i read them openly. when i became a man i put away childish things, including the fear of childishness and the desire to be very grown up.
when i was young, i observed that nine out of ten things i did were failures. so i did ten times more work.
when i'm lying in my bed, i think about life and i think about death, and neither one particularly appeals to me.
when i'm old and dying, i plan to look back on my life and say, wow, that was an adventure, not, wow, i sure felt safe.
when in doubt, do it.
when it comes down to it, i let them think what they want. if they care enough to bother with what i do, then i'm already better than them.
when it comes to pursuing your dreams, you should at least try, even if it's a near impossible field to compete in. at least that way, there will be no lingering doubts regarding whether you would have succeeded or not.
when it looked like the sun wasn't going to shine any more, there's a rainbow in the clouds.
when life gives you lemons, squirt someone in the eye.
when love is not madness it is not love.
when men yield up the privilege of thinking, the last shadow of liberty quits the horizon.
when one door closes another door opens, but we so often look so long and so regretfully upon the closed door, that we do not see the ones which open for us.
when one door of happiness closes, another opens, but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us.
when one jumps over the edge, one is bound to land somewhere.
when people admire the height of tower, the foundation chuckles.
when people are free to do as they please, they usually imitate each other.
when people ask what i see in you, i just smile and look away because i'm afraid if they knew they'd fall in love with you too.
when people show you who they are, believe them the first time.
when someone is crying, of course, the noble thing to do is to comfort them. but if someone is trying to hide their tears, it may also be noble to pretend you do not notice them.
when someone is trying very hard to get something, they don't. and when they're running away from something as hard as they can, it usually catches up with them.
when someone leaves, it's because someone else is about to arrive.
when someone loves you, the way they talk about you is different. you feel safe and comfortable.
when someone shows you who they are believe them, the first time.
when someone shows you who they are, believe them.
when sophie died, i learned the strongest force in life is guilt. the hardest thing to overcome is shame. you have to look yourself in the mirror every single day and account for everything you've done wrong. you cant take it back.
when students cheat on exams it's because our school system values grades more than students value learning.
when the axe came into the woods, many of the trees said, at least the handle is one of us.
when the fully enlightened teachers do not appear and when the disciples have disappeared the wisdom of self enlightened one will arise completely without a teacher.
when the opponent expands, i contract. when he contracts, i expand. and when there is an opportunity, i do not hit. it hits all by itself.
when the past no longer illuminates the future, the spirit walks in darkness.
when the power of love overcomes the love of power, the world will know peace.
when the rich fight the rich, it is the poor who die.
when the whole world is running towards a cliff, he who is running in the opposite direction appears to have lost his mind.
when there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you.
when thinking about life, remember this, no amount of guilt can solve the past & no amount of anxiety can change the future.
when two partners always agree, one of them is not necessary.
when we are not sure, we are alive.
when we exercise self control on a given occasion, we win for ourselves a little credibility we can rely on the next time around. pretty soon we develop a reputation to ourselves that we want badly to uphold. with each test that we meet, our resolve gains momentum, fueled by the fear that we may succumb and establish a damaging precedent for our own weakness.
when we first met warren buffett, their host at dinner, gates mother,asked everyone around the table to identify what they believed was the single most important factor in their success through life. gates and buffett gave the same one word answer, focus.
when we honestly ask ourselves which person in our lives mean the most to us, we often find that it is those who, instead of giving advice, solutions, or cures, have chosen rather to share our pain and touch our wounds with a warm and tender hand. the friend who can be silent with us in a moment of despair or confusion, who can stay with us in an hour of grief and bereavement, who can tolerate not knowing, not curing, not healing and face with us the reality of our powerlessness, that is a friend who cares.
when we love, we always strive to become better than we are. when we strive to become better than we are, everything around us becomes better too.
when we were children, we used to think that when we were grown up we would no longer be vulnerable. but to grow up is to accept vulnerability, to be alive is to be vulnerable.
when you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second. when you sit on a red hot cinder a second seems like an hour. that's relativity.
when you are not practicing, remember, someone somewhere is, and when you meet him he is going to win.
when you are studying any matter, ask yourself only what are the facts and what is the truth that the facts bear out. never let yourself be diverted either by what you wish to believe or by what you think would have beneficent social effects if it were believed.
when you completely trust a person without any doubt. you will automatically get one of two results.
when you do what you fear most, then you can do anything.
when you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
when you have in money in hand, only you forget who are you. but when you do not have any money in your hand, the whole world forget who you are. it's life.
when you know you're meant to birth an idea into existence, feeling like a failure often means you're moments away from your biggest success.
when you start to see too many sycophants around your boss, it is time to quit the job.
when you stop chasing the wrong things.. you give the right things a chance to catch you.
when you stop expecting people to be perfect, you can like them for who they are.
when you tear out a mans tongue, you are not proving him a liar, you're only telling the world that you fear what he might say.
when you were born, you cried, and the world rejoiced. live your life so that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice.
when you're 20 you care what everyone thinks, when you're 40 you stop caring what everyone thinks, when you're 60 you realize no one was ever thinking about you in the first place.
when you're in jail, a good friend will be trying to bail you out. a best friend will be in the cell next to you saying, damn, that was fun.
when you're struggling with something, look at all the people around you and realize that every single person you see is struggling with something, and to them, it's just as hard as what you're going through.
when you're studying abroad, you become like bonsai. you can take a bonsai out of his pot and put him somewhere else. but you can never put him in his old place again. the part you don't see, the roots, have become too big to ever fit in his old place again.
when you're young, you look at television.
when young men seek to be like you, when lazy men resent you, when powerful men look over their shoulder at you, when cowardly men plot behind your back, when corrupt men wish you were gone and evil men want you dead, only then will you have done your share.
when your learn, teach. when you get, give.
when your mom dies you're the best memory of her. everything you do and say is a memory of her.
whenever i feel the need to exercise, i lie down until it goes away.
whenever you find you are on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.
whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.
where all think alike, no one thinks very much.
where is human nature so weak as in the bookstore.
where there is great love, there are always wishes.
where there is love there is life.
where true fortitude dwells, loyalty, bounty, friendship, and fidelity may be found.
wherever the poetry of myth is interpreted as biography, history, or science, it is killed.
whether or not money can buy happiness, it can buy freedom, and that's a big deal. also, lack of money is very stressful. in many ways, having enough money so that you don't stress about paying rent does more to change your wellbeing than having enough money to buy your own jet.
whether you think you can, or you think you can't you're right.
while i chased the extraordinary all over this chaotic world, your ordinariness brought calm in to my life.
who are you to judge the life i live.i know i'm not perfect and i don't live to be but before you start pointing fingers make sure you hands are clean.
who knows what true loneliness is not the conventional word but the naked terror. to the lonely themselves it wears a mask. the most miserable outcast hugs some memory or some illusion.
who said nights were for sleep.
who said this, i met a man with a dollar, we exchange dollars. we each have one dollar. i met a man with an idea. we exchange ideas, and we each have two ideas.
whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. and if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.
whoever is careless with the truth in small matters cannot be trusted with important matters.
whoever is happy will make others happy, too.
whoever is trying to bring you down is already beneath you.
why are women. so much more interesting to men than men are to women.
why didn't i learn to treat everything like it was the last time. my greatest regret was how much i believed in the future.
why do people have to be this lonely. what's the point of it all. millions of people in this world, all of them yearning, looking to others to satisfy them, yet isolating themselves. why. was the earth put here just to nourish human loneliness.
why do you go away. so that you can come back. so that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. and the people there see you differently, too. coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.
why do you weep. did you think i was immortal.
why does the air force need expensive new bombers. have the people we've been bombing over the years been complaining.
why fit in when you were born to stand out.
why is it that when you take advantage of a tax break for a corporation you are a good business person but when you take advantage of something that you need to not be hungry you're a moocher.
why not go out on a limb. that's where the fruit is.
why should i be sad. i have lost someone who didn't love me. but they lost someone who loved them.
why spend a dollar on a bookmark. why not use the dollar as a bookmark.
why, sometimes i've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.
wicked people never have time for reading. it's one of the reasons for their wickedness.
wisdom begins at the end.
wisdom begins in wonder.
wisdom has its root in goodness, not goodness its root in wisdom.
wisdom is a sacred communion.
wisdom is knowing we are all one. love is what it feels like and compassion is what it acts like.
wisdom stands at the turn in the road and calls upon us publicly, but we consider it false and despise its adherents.
wise men are instructed by reason, men of less understanding, by experience, the most ignorant, by necessity, the beasts, by nature.
wise men speak because they have something to say, fools because they have to say something.
wise men talk because they have something to say, fools, because they have to say something.
wit beyond measure is man's greatest treasure.
with freedom, books, flowers, and the moon, who could not be happy.
with great power. comes great need to take a nap. wake me up later.
within you is a stillness and a sanctuary to which you can retreat at any time and be yourself.
without courage, wisdom bears no fruit.
without deviation from the norm, progress is not possible.
without music, life would be a mistake.
without pain, how could we know joy. this is an old argument in the field of thinking about suffering and its stupidity and lack of sophistication could be plumbed for centuries but suffice it to say that the existence of broccoli does not, in any way, affect the taste of chocolate.
without realizing it, the individual composes his life according to the laws of beauty even in times of greatest distress.
without wearing any mask we are conscious of, we have a special face for each friend.
woke up this morning with a terrific urge to lie in bed all day and read.
women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.
women are made to be loved, not understood.
women are meant to be loved, not to be understood.
women who seek to be equal with men lack ambition.
words are easy, like the wind, faithful friends are hard to find.
words are, of course, the most powerful drug used by mankind.
words can be like x rays if you use them properly they'll go through anything. you read and you're pierced.
work expands to fill the time available for its completion.
work for a cause not for applause live to express an not to impress.
work like you don't need the money. love like you've never been hurt. dance like nobody's watching.
worry about your character, not your reputation. your character is who you are. your reputation is who people think you are.
worry does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow, it empties today of its strength.
worry is a misuse of the imagination.
worry is like a rocking chair, it gives you something to do but never gets you anywhere.
worry never robs tomorrow of its sorrow, but only saps today of its strength.
worrying does not empty tomorrow of its troubles, it empties today of its strength.
wrinkles should merely indicate where the smiles have been.
write drunk, edit sober.
writing is a socially acceptable form of schizophrenia.
yes, frosting. the final defense of the dying.
yes, i am a dreamer. for a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.
yes, i guess you could say i am a loner, but i feel more lonely in a crowded room with boring people than i feel on my own.
yesterday i was clever, so i wanted to change the world. today i am wise, so i am changing myself.
yesterday is history, tomorrow is a mystery, today is a gift, which is why we call it the present.
yesterday is not ours to recover, but tomorrow is ours to win or lose.
yesterday, today was tomorrow, and tomorrow, today will be yesterday.
yet living and dying, honor and dishonor, pain and pleasure, riches and poverty, and so forth are equally the lot of good men and bad. things like these neither elevate nor degrade, and therefore they are no more good than they are evil.
you ache with it all; and the more mysterious it is, the more you ache.
you alone are enough. you have nothing to prove to anybody.
you and i, we were never a love story. but i wish we could've been. you and i would have been such some beautiful letters together. r.r.
you and i are messengers of solar system. we exist as supercharged waveform. this life is nothing short of a redefining flow of non local inseparability.
you are imperfect, permanently and inevitably flawed. and you are beautiful.
you are my best friend as well as my lover, and i do not know which side of you i enjoy the most. i treasure each side, just as i have treasured our life together.
you are not entitled to your opinion. you are entitled to your informed opinion. no one is entitled to be ignorant.
you are not required to set yourself on fire to keep other people warm.
you are on your own, but you are not alone.
you are so busy being you that you have no idea how utterly unprecedented you are.
you are the universe expressing itself as a human for a little while.
you are, and always have been, my dream.
you assist an evil system most effectively by obeying its orders and decrees. an evil system never deserves such allegiance. allegiance to it means partaking of the evil. a good person will resist an evil system with his or her whole soul.
you believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself.
you break your own heart to make it bigger, so why not crack your skull when the mind swells.
you can be the ripest, juiciest peach in the world, and there's still going to be somebody who hates peaches.
you can complain, but complaining is not a strategy.
you can do anything, but not everything.
you can find magic wherever you look. sit back and relax, all you need is a book.
you can love someone so much.but you can never love people as much as you can miss them.
you can make more friends in two months by becoming interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get other people interested in you.
you can never be overdressed or overeducated.
you can never get a cup of tea large enough or a book long enough to suit me.
you can never go home again, but the truth is you can never leave home, so it's all right.
you can never plan the future by the past.
you can spend minutes, hours, days, weeks, or even months over analyzing a situation, trying to put the pieces together, justifying what could've, would've happened. or you can just leave the pieces on the floor and move the on.
you can talk with someone for years, everyday, and still, it won't mean as much as what you can have when you sit in front of someone, not saying a word, yet you feel that person with your heart, you feel like you have known the person for forever. connections are made with the heart, not the tongue.
you can tell how smart people are by what they laugh at.
you can't be happy unless you're unhappy sometimes.
you can't change the world. but you can let the world change you until your death, in which it kills you.
you can't change what happened to you, but you can change what happens to you.
you can't connect the dots looking forward, you can only connect them looking backwards. so you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future.
you can't eat your cake and have it too.
you can't force love, i realized. it's there or it isn't. if it's not there, you've got to be able to admit it. if it is there, you've got to do whatever it takes to protect the ones you love.
you can't just ask customers what they want and then try to give that to them. by the time you get it built, they'll want something new.
you can't just eat good food. you've got to talk about it too.
you can't just sit there and put everybody's lives ahead of yours and think that counts as love.
you can't live your life for other people. you've got to do what's right for you, even if it hurts some people you love.
you can't measure the mutual affection of two human beings by the number of words they exchange.
you can't push anyone up the ladder unless he is ready to climb himself.
you can't start the next chapter of your life if you keep re reading the last one.
you can't stay in your corner of the forest waiting for others to come to you. you have to go to them sometimes.
you can't tell someone they love you.
you can't use up creativity. the more you use, the more you have.
you cannot find peace by avoiding life.
you cannot protect yourself from sadness without protecting yourself from happiness.
you cannot push anyone up the ladder unless he is willing to climb.
you cannot swim for new horizons until you have courage to lose sight of the shore.
you could have had anything else in the world, and you asked for me.she smiled up at him. filthy as he was, covered in blood and dirt, he was the most beautiful thing she'd ever seen.but i don't want anything else in the world.
you could rattle the stars, she whispered. you could do anything, if only you dared. and deep down, you know it, too. that's what scares you most.
you crossed the line first, sir. you squeezed them, you hammered them to the point of desperation. and in their desperation, they turned to a man they didn't fully understand.
you deserve but you won't get.
you did what you thought was right. it just so happens it wasn't.
you do not blame them on your mother, the ecology, or the president. you realize that you control your own destiny.
you do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother.
you do not write your life with words. you write it with actions. what you think is not important. it is only important what you do.
you don't drown by falling in the water, you drown by staying there.
you don't forget the face of the person who was your last hope.
you don't get to choose if you get hurt in this world, but you do have some say in who hurts you. i like my choices.
you don't have a soul, doctor. you are a soul. you have a body, temporarily.
you don't have to be great to start, but you have to start to be great.
you don't have to burn books to destroy a culture. just get people to stop reading them.
you don't have to live your life so that your life is suitable for small talk. life can be lived in ways that circumnavigate a myriad of colors and landscapes.
you don't have to stay up nights to succeed, you have to stay awake days.
you don't know about real loss, because that only occurs when you love something more than you love yourself.
you don't know what goes on in anyone's life but your own. and when you mess with one part of a person's life, you're not messing with just that part. unfortunately, you can't be that precise and selective. when you mess with one part of a person's life, you're messing with their entire life. everything, affects everything.
you don't know what you can get away with until you try.
you don't love someone because they're perfect, you love them in spite of the fact that they're not.
you don't love someone for their looks, or their clothes, or for their fancy car, but because they sing a song only you can hear.
you don't need a new year to make a change. all you need is a monday. make this the week you change your life.
you don't need another human being to make your life complete, but lets be honest. having your wounds kissed by someone who doesn't see them as disasters in your soul but cracks to put their love into is the most calming thing in this world.
you don't remember what happened. what you remember becomes what happened.
you educate a man, you educate a man. you educate a woman, you educate a generation.
you ever wonder what this pocket is for.
you gain strength, courage and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. you are able to say to yourself, i have lived through this horror. i can take the next thing that comes along. you must do the thing you think you cannot do.
you gave me a forever within the numbered days, and i'm grateful.
you get a strange feeling when you're about to leave a place. like you'll not only miss the people you love but you'll miss the person you are now at this time and this place, because you'll never be this way ever again.
you have brains in your head. you have feet in your shoes. you can steer yourself any direction you choose. you're on your own. and you know what you know. and you are the one who'll decide where to go.
you have enemies. good. that means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.
you have it easily in your power to increase the sum total of this world's happiness now. how. by giving a few words of sincere appreciation to someone who is lonely or discouraged. perhaps you will forget tomorrow the kind words you say today, but the recipient may cherish them over a lifetime.
you have power over your mind, not outside events. realize this, and you will find strength.
you have to be burning with an idea, or a problem, or a wrong that you want to right. if you're not passionate enough from the start, you'll never stick it out.
you have to be odd to be number one.
you have to recognize that there are 24 hours a day, we sleep 6 hours a day, and i know that some of you did say, i say just sleep faster, okay.
you have to write the book that wants to be written. and if the book will be too difficult for grown ups, then you write it for children.
you have your way. i have my way. as for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist.
you here to finish me off, sweetheart.
you is kind. you is smart. you is important.
you know time is long, and life is short. begin to live while you still can.
you know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.
you know your shortcomings yet you love yourself. how come you hate others for their shortcomings.
you know, it's funny, when you look at someone through rose colored glasses, all the red flags just look like flags.
you know, one of the tragedies of real life is that there is no background music.
you know, when it works, love is pretty amazing. it's not overrated. there's a reason for all those songs.
you know, you could live a thousand lifetimes and not deserve him.
you live in a great, big, vast world that you've seen none percent of. even the inside of your own mind is endless. the fact that you're alive is amazing, so you don't get to say i'm bored.
you lost a person that don't love you, she lost a person that loved her. her loss.
you love me. real or not real. i tell him, real.
you may be right, dead right, as you speed along in your argument.
you may delay, but time will not.
you may encounter many defeats but you must not be defeated.
you may have to fight a battle more than once to win it.
you may never know what results come of your actions, but if you do nothing, there will be no results.
you may not be able to alter reality, but you can alter your attitude towards it, and this, paradoxically, alters reality. try it and see.
you may not be her first, her last, or her only. she loved before she may love again. but if she loves you now, what else matters. she's not perfect you aren't either, and the two of you may never be perfect together but if she can make you laugh, cause you to think twice, and admit to being human and making mistakes, hold onto her and give her the most you can. she may not be thinking about you every second of the day, but she will give you a part of her that she knows you can break her heart. so don't hurt her, don't change her, don't analyze and don't expect more than she can give. smile when she makes you happy, let her know when she makes you mad, and miss her when she's not there.
you may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can decide not to be reduced by them.
you may say i'm a dreamer, but i'm not the only one. i hope someday you'll join us. and the world will live as one.
you may say you're against status. but if you filled a room with people who said they were anti status, a hierarchy would soon form based on how anti status they are.
you might be poor, your shoes might be broken, but your mind is a palace.
you might not have been my first love but you were the love that made all the other loves irrelevant.
you must be shapeless, formless, like water. when you pour water in a cup, it becomes the cup. when you pour water in a bottle, it becomes the bottle. when you pour water in a teapot, it becomes the teapot. water can drip and it can crash. become like water my friend.
you must be the change you want to see in the world.
you must believe in free will, there is no choice.
you must do the things you think you cannot do.
you must have chaos within you to give birth to a dancing star.
you must know that in any moment a decision you make can change the course of your life forever.
you must not fight too often with one enemy or you will teach him all your art of war.
you must not lose faith in humanity. humanity is like an ocean, if a few drops of the ocean are dirty, the ocean does not become dirty.
you must stay drunk on writing so reality cannot destroy you.
you need to learn how to select your thoughts just the same way you select your clothes every day. this is a power you can cultivate. if you want to control things in your life so bad, work on the mind. that's the only thing you should be trying to control.
you never fail until you stop trying.
you never have to change anything you got up in the middle of the night to write.
you never knew the truth, and you never will know the truth. the truth you never know.
you never know what worse luck your bad luck has saved you from.
you never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view. until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it.just when you think it can't get any worse, it can. and just when you think it can't get any better, it can.
you never understand anybody that loves you.
you pierce my soul. i am half agony, half hope. i have loved none but you.
you realize that our mistrust of the future makes it hard to give up the past.
you realize that trying to keep your distance from me will not lessen my affection for you. all efforts to save me from you will fail.
you really haven't changed, you've just become more of yourself. that is really what were all trying to do, become more of ourselves.
you see things, you say, why. but i dream things that never were, and i say why not.
you see you wouldn't ask why the rose that grew from the concrete had damaged petals. on the contrary we would all celebrate its tenacity. we would all love its will to reach the sun. well, we are the roses, this is the concrete, and these are my damaged petals.
you should never be surprised when someone treats you with respect, you should expect it.
you should never turn a man's generosity as a sword against him. any virtue that a man has, even if he has many vices, should not be used as a tool against him.
you should sit in meditation for 20 minutes a day, unless you're too busy, then you should sit for an hour.
you show people what you're willing to fight for when you fight your friends.
you smell good, too.
you speak an infinite deal of nothing.
you spend your whole life looking for the adult that you are, and you spend the rest of your life looking for the child that you were.
you talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts.
you think your pain and your heartbreak are unprecedented in the history of the world, but then you read.
you very rarely need to cut people from your life, but you need to put them in their place.
you want my opinion. we're all a little weird. and life's a little weird. and when we find someone whose weirdness is compatible with ours, we join up with them and fall into mutually satisfying weirdness and call it love true love.
you were born to do more than just go to work, pay bills and die.
you were born with wings, why prefer to crawl through life.
you were the only sun i had in my life. but i should have know that every sun goes back down again.
you will always be fond of me. i represent to you all the sins you never had the courage to commit.
you will become way less concerned with what other people think of you when you realize how seldom they do.
you will do foolish things, but do them with enthusiasm.
you will fall in love with me. then, just months later, you will fall out. i will pretend the entire time that i don't know its coming.
you will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of.
you will never imprison my mind.
you will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.
you will never speak to anyone more than you speak to yourself in your head, be kind to yourself.
you will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your anger.
you won't get anything unless you have the vision to imagine it.
you wont allow me to go to school. i wont become a doctor. remember this, one day you will be sick.
you wouldn't worry so much about what others think of you if you realized how seldom they do.
you, he said, are a terribly real thing in a terribly false world, and that, i believe, is why you are in so much pain.
you'll be fine. you're 25. feeling unsure and lost is part of your path. don't avoid it. see what those feelings are showing you and use it. take a breath. you'll be okay. even if you don't feel okay all the time.
you'll end up really disappointed if you think people will do for you as you do for them. not everyone has the same heart as you.
you'll never find peace of mind until you listen to your heart.
you'll worry less about what people think about you when you realize how seldom they do.
you're alive only once, as far as we know, and what could be worse than getting to the end of your life and realizing you hadn't lived it.
you're alive. do something. the directive in life, the moral imperative was so uncomplicated. it could be expressed in single words, not complete sentences. it sounded like this, look. listen. choose. act.
you're going to come across people in your life who will say all the right words at all the right times. but in the end, it's always their actions you should judge them by. it's actions, not words, that matter.
you're just as capable of those you envy.
you're never going to learn something as profoundly as when it's purely out of curiosity.
you're not afraid of the truth. your afraid of dealing with it.
you're off to great places. today is your day. your mountain is waiting, so get on your way.
you're under no obligation to be the same person you were 5 minutes ago.
your beliefs become your thoughts, your thoughts become your words, your words become your actions, your actions become your habits, your habits become your values, your values become your destiny.
your beliefs don't make you a better person. your behavior does.
your decisions are manipulated by your own point of view.
your friend is the man who knows all about you, and still likes you.
your mind will believe comforting lies while also knowing the painful truths that make those lies necessary. and your mind will punish you for believing both.
your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning.
your rights matter because you never know when you're going to need them.
your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find all the barriers within yourself that you have built against it.
your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. don't be trapped by dogma, which is living with the results of other people's thinking. don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your inner voice. and most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. they somehow already know what you truly want to become. everything else is secondary.
your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. and most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.
your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. and the only way to do great work is to love what you do.
your world dies before you do.
your worst enemies won't harm you as much your own unguarded thoughts.
youth can not know how age thinks and feels, but old men are guilty if they forget what it is to be young.
zero tolerance is simply a way for people who don't want to think to regulate others. it excuses them from having to consider every factor, come up with a wise and logical course of action, and to stand behind that action and defend it with an equal amount of wisdom and confidence.